--- Page 1 ---
Options for institutional engagement of the private sector in the UNFCCC Process (Official Side Event) Thursday 10 June 2010 18.00 - 19 . 3 0 – Followed by refreshments Ministry of Environment, Room WIND (Please check Dally Programme and CCTV) Where could th e engagement of the private sector add value in the UNFCCC? Why is now a good moment to strengthen the existing involvement of the private secto r at an intergovernmental level? Speakers Didier Herbert (EC DG Enterprise & Industry) María Mendiluce (WBCSD) Panelists Ambasador Granguillhome (Mexico) Kazuhiko Hombu (Japan) Helle Juhler-Verdoner (Alstom) Bruce Wilson (Chair EGTT) Chair Niklas Höhne (Ecofys) Options for institutional engagement of the private sector in the U NFCCC Process The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Ecofys and Climate Focus, with support from the European Commission, are leading a project to define options for enhanced engagement of the private sector in developing and impl ementing climate change policy. While governments work on establishing an international framework to address climate change, implementation of any agreement will rely on efforts at all levels of society. Governments will be responsible for policy actions and establishing regulatory frameworks to support low carbon development. The private sector will be responsible for delivering the technology solutions necessary for the transition to a low carbon society, and for redirecting financial flows into climat e friendly investments. Over the last years, international climate negotiations have introduced references to the private sector. However, there remain few opportunities for structured input on business relevant issues. The expertise and knowledge of the business community has yet to be fully tapped by governments on aspects where such expertise could both inform and add value at a technical, sector - specific finance and market level. This project includes institutional and legal aspects of the climate chan ge regime, and an understanding of the governance and working methodologies of the business community. The project addresses some of the challenges of an engagement process with the private sector: recognition, legitimacy, inclusion of diverse perspectiv es – sector and geographic, transparency, one channel /multiple business voices etc. The aim of the study is to explore possibilities for an enhanced, sustainable, structured involvement of the private sector that add s value to the process. World Business Council for Sustainable Development
