--- Page 1 ---
PARKING MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Free company parking spaces could encourage unsustainable mobility behavior among employees, but are at the same time in many settings considered essential to allow accessibility. Parking space is also an important part of mobility-linked costs for many businesses. Parking management is, therefore, a crucial lever to reduce costs and increase transport sustainability. Several examples of parking management exist, and the choice of which patterns to follow depends on the goal being encouraged through this measure. A first approach is to influence how people park by creating dedicated zones, for example, by allocating the parking spaces closest to the office to shared cars, ridesharing, carsharing, electric vehicles or two wheelers. Furthermore, in large parking lots with several entries, allocating parking zones according to employees’ home addresses and office locations can reduce congestion, avoiding long drives inside the lot. Another approach is to locate parking places further from the office than public transport stations – using the length of the walk to the office to encourage the use of other modes. Another way to discourage drive-alone commuting in areas where alternative commuting options exist, is to change how employees get charged for parking. Instead of charging a flat monthly fee or providing free parking, employers can charge employees by usage – encouraging them to leave their car at home whenever possible. Additionally, the fee can be lower if employees share their car. And if needed, the employer can put in place a X-days monthly free parking allowance. This measure is also coherent with new working patterns, where some employees might be working flexibly, and will be reluctant to pay for parking monthly in several different locations. Differentiation in parking fees over the day can also help spread commuting traffic. Several digital parking solutions have been developed (like permit portals allowing drivers to purchase and track parking permits) and thanks to these tools, parking can be assigned to an individual for short periods of time, with or without associating payment. The effectiveness of parking management can be increased through campaigns (car-free days, for example) and by combining it with other measures encouraging sustainable commuting, like public transport and active modes quality improvements (capacity, reliability etc.) or company shuttles. Objectives pursued: Reduce the need for parking space (reducing costs), reduce traffic congestion and environmental impact, encourage car- and ridesharing, improve accessibility. Context: This measure can be adopted in any context where the company provides parking space. Main benefits In many cases, employers still need to provide parking to make their sites accessible. Costs associated with parking can be extremely high, and parking management is an effective way to reduce these costs without reducing accessibility. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Change can meet a lot of resistance, this is also the case for parking management. Most resistance can be overcome thanks to communication combined with improved alternatives. Changes linked to parking management are also easier to adopt as part of a more comprehensive workspace change – for example for new employees, when moving offices or when adopting flexible working patterns. Cost elements: Can help reduce parking costs but charging for parking on a daily basis can induce costs for the employer, depending on how parking is controlled so far. Metrics for impact evaluation Parking management can reduce the need for parking space. Cost reductions linked to parking are also a relevant measure, as well as increases in adoption rates for public transit and in carsharing. WBCSD members who have put in place parking management
