--- Page 1 ---
PERSONAL MOBILITY ASSISTANT SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Personal mobility assistants create personalized recommendations on each travel and can sometimes track personal data and make recommendations according to travel history. These can be integrated into third-party systems to facilitate the transition to and maintenance of a sustainable mobility culture. In many cases, one of the tools for these assistants are smart mobile applications that offer opportunities for route planning, ridesharing or carpooling, and data acquisition on parking, travel, fuel emission and reduction. Features of these mobility applications can often be defined according to business and user needs. Gamification and rewards can be combined with personal recommendations, creating further incentives for more sustainable behavior. The tools used for this measure can also allow for campaigns and transparency measures. Objective pursued: Reduce travel time and cost; improve business attractiveness and talent retention; incentivize sustainable behaviors, reduce choice-supportive bias, reduce energy consumption and emissions. Context : This system can be adopted in any context and will take each individual’s needs into account. Main benefits Mobility assistants are beneficial in proposing sustainable travel options, promoting the relevance of sustainable mobility and flexible travel and creating healthy competition among employees. Improved accessibility to travel data, enhanced operational processes (e.g., automation of travel invoicing or receipt), performance monitoring and reduction in operational cost and time and vehicular emissions are also major benefits derived by companies that have adopted its use. Cost element : Dependent on design or feature specifications needed for desired results. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Companies that introduce technological tools such as the personal mobility assistant can face challenges like low patronage, especially by employees who are not tech-savvy or are skeptical of how their personal data will be managed. This can be addressed by offering self-paced training and positive messaging to incite behavioral change and by making other travel invoicing tools a time- consuming alternative. Metrics for impact evaluation Most personal mobility assistants collect data on the mobility of all employees and allow each employee to track their own impact. The impact of the mobility assistant can be determined using collected data on emissions, number of employees signed on to the tool, number of parking places used per day or week, employee mobility choice change and duration, and number of employee travels and costs saved. Our members using personal mobility assistants
