--- Page 1 ---
PIRELLI’S MOBILITY SURVEY Summary Pirelli regularly conducts mobility surveys, the last being carried out in July 2019. The survey allows the company to get a clear view of its employees' mobility behavior. It is also a powerful tool to collect input on employees' expectations concerning sustainable mobility. Company background Founded in Italy in 1872, Pirelli & C. S.p.A. designs, produces and sells tires for cars, motorcycles and bicycles. Today, it stands as a global brand known for its cutting-edge technology, high- end production, excellence, and passion for innovation, that draws heavily on its Italian roots. Sustainability is fully integrated into the Group's Vision and Strategies for growth, in all business areas and management decisions, everywhere in the world. As part of their sustainability culture, Pirelli actively works on making their employees' mobility more sustainable. The best practice shared here was developed for Pirelli's headquarters (HQ) in Milan. The mobility context Pirelli’s HQ in Milan is located at the north-eastern border of the city. The site is served by railway and metro stations. Milan has recently improved its bike lane network in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to reduce traffic congestion and pollution. Pirelli actively contributes in discussions to extend this network further. Best practice In July 2019, Pirelli conducted a mobility survey that enabled the company to better understand employee expectations on sustainable mobility and get a picture of how mobility had evolved over time. The previous survey with which results were compared was conducted in 2015. Results The survey was developed through a joint effort across multiple Pirelli functions (including Sustainability, Mobility, HR and Real Estate) as well as with an external provider specializing in corporate welfare. The survey, answered by 58% of HQ employees, gave a better understanding of the local mobility context evolutions. In particular, it showed how employees commute to work: 55% use their private car, while 35% use public transport. Furthermore, it allowed the company to investigate people’s propensity to changing commuting behavior and preferences on mobility alternatives. Indeed, through dedicated sections Pirelli investigated the propensity of its employees to adopt specific mobility solutions, such as company car sharing, company bike sharing and carpooling. The study also highlighted some of the main barriers preventing a broader uptake of bike use: the main impeding factor being street safety and a lack of cycling lanes. The latter insight is an example of survey output that also served as supporting information in the collaboration with the local administration as well as with peers in the private sector, mobilizing joint effort to address some of the mobility challenges of the city of Milan and spurring the implementation of new cycling lanes in Pirelli's HQ district. Overcoming challenges Mobility surveys can yield useful input for assessing mobility sustainability and collecting employees’ feedback on their expectations. However, it is a resource-intensive activity, and might be difficult to implement every few months, or even every year. Since mobility is context- specific and constantly evolving, one of the great challenges is to design the survey and to time it effectively. Generally, a new mobility survey is carried out either every two or three years, or after major disruptions in the mobility context, such as the availability of new infrastructure (i.e., metro line) or the sanitary crisis due to COVID-19.
