--- Page 1 ---
PIRELLI’S COMPANY BIKE SHARING Summary A bike-sharing service was introduced at Pirelli’s headquarters (HQ) in Milan to provide employees with access to e-bikes. Employees were enthusiastic about this solution, which answered one of their expressed interests – commuting by bike – in a mobility survey carried out in 2019. The bike-sharing scheme has now been opened up to other companies, allowing Pirelli to develop a new business: Pirelli Cycl-e Around. Company background Founded in Italy in 1872, Pirelli & C. S.p.A. designs, produces and sells tires for cars, motorcycles and bicycles. Today, it stands as a global brand known for its cutting-edge technology, high- end production, excellence, and passion for innovation, that draws heavily on its Italian roots. Sustainability is fully integrated into the Group's Vision and Strategies for growth, in all business areas and management decisions, everywhere in the world. As part of its sustainability culture, Pirelli actively works on making their employees’ mobility more sustainable. The best practice shared here was first developed for Pirelli’s HQ in Milan. The mobility context Pirelli’s HQ in Milan is located at the north-eastern border of the city. The site is served by railway and metro stations. Milan has recently improved its bike lane network in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to reduce traffic congestion and pollution. Pirelli actively contributes in discussions to extend this network further. Best practice One of the results of Pirelli’s 2019 mobility survey was that 26% of Pirelli employees were interested in using bikes for commuting. Cycl-e Around aims to oversee the emerging segment of micromobility with an innovative and high-quality proposal and to give Pirelli employees easy access to e-bikes. Promoting a sustainable and active style of mobility that favors the comfortable and safe use of micromobility vehicles, the company introduced a web-based company bike-sharing service: Pirelli Cycl-e Around. After a pilot phase within Pirelli, recording a high interest and relevant number of bookings, the company scaled up the project which is now available for other corporates within the country, and already includes five big companies and their subsidiaries. Today, Cycl-e Around is a customizable rental solution for private communities. Pirelli provides a comprehensive service, including: fleet of high-end e-bikes, maintenance and service, digital platform for bookings management, marketing and communication support. Results Within the pilot phase at Pirelli, over 100 employees subscribed for the first test, confirming interest in the offer and evaluating the offer very positively, achieving a 8.7/10 Net Promoter Score (NPS). Thanks to these great results, some implementations and new features were released and today the service is available both for corporates and luxury hotels. Overcoming challenges The main challenge faced in developing this solution was the COVID-19 pandemic, which reduced mobility demand and forced several projects to slow down. However, the pandemic was also an opportunity for many employees to rethink their mobility, making biking an interesting option. Furthermore, there was a shortage of e-bikes on the market, a long lead time for components and final products, forcing Pirelli to reduce the number of e-bikes available. A big challenge was also to make sure the bike-sharing scheme was correctly insured. Pirelli decided to turn to a third-party insurer to reduce its liability and have a solution covering theft and fire.
