--- Page 1 ---
Key insights The Barometer is based on surveys, interviews and collective consultations with more than 300 executives across 50+ countries, conducted between March and early May 2025. It is a joint effort led by the WBCSD, in partnership with the Breakthrough Agenda, the Climate High-Level Champions and Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, and supported by Bain and Company. About the Barometer The Business Breakthrough Barometer 2025 provides a global snapshot of how leading businesses are navigating the net-zero transition. In 2025, it explores the impact of geopolitics, investment trends and climate change impacts. The Barometer also deep dives on seven sectors critical to energy and industrial transitions— power, road transport, steel, cement, buildings, hydrogen, and fertilizers —exploring where progress is accelerating and the barriers to investment. In partnership with Supported by Business Breakthrough Barometer 2025 Briefing for Policymakers Business commitment is holding—but policy confidence is fading 91% of leaders say their businesses have maintained or increased net-zero investments over the past year, with the majority saying they invest for long-term competitiveness. Yet, 50% of global companies report declining confidence in government support ( 96% headquartered in North America, fewer than 10% in Asia) with concern over rising political polarization, regulatory uncertainty, and delayed policy decisions. → Stay on-track: leading businesses want governments to stay committed to net-zero. Global investment is moving—bright spots are winning 94% of leaders say supportive clean energy and net- zero transition policies are critical factors when making investment decisions. Asia and Europe have become more attractive due to aligned industrial and climate strategies, whilst half cited now see the U.S. as less attractive for transition investments than last year. → Don’t miss the moment: Countries with clear industrial policy, long-term certainty and affordable clean energy are attracting a transition dividend. This isn’t about regulation—it’s about competitiveness Business leaders consistently highlight three priority areas for government action: finance & investment mechanisms to close commercial gaps and accelerate timelines; demand creation measures to unlock markets for nascent technologies (such as hydrogen and steel); and standards & certifications to scale proven solutions and enable international trade. → Target sector-specific policies to build domestic industry and ensure that breakthrough solutions like clean hydrogen and steel don’t stall. International cooperation remains essential to scale markets 85% of surveyed leaders rated international coordination on finance, trade, standards and infrastructure as important for advancing the net-zero transition. Yet only 28% of companies reported meaningful progress over the past year. → Work with other governments to reduce fragmentation so that markets scale and investments speed up. Inaction has a price—and it’s already being paid 61% of leaders expect their business to experience rising climate-related costs this year, with 52% building adaptation and resilience into business strategies, and 92% predicting the cost of inaction will be higher than the cost of transition for their organizations. → Climate costs are no longer future risks—they’re current liabilities. Inaction will compound systemic risk and hinder growth. Key statistics of leaders say their businesses have maintained or increased investments in the net-zero transition vs 12 months ago 91% of business leaders cite industrial competitiveness as the primary reason for investing in the transition 56% of business leaders believe governments should stay committed to achieving net-zero emissions. 96%

--- Page 2 ---
Business Breakthrough Barometer 2025 Top policy priorities per sector reported by business leaders Priority #1 Priority #2 Priority #3 Power Infrastructure: Streamline permitting, align market design, and advance interconnectors to scale investment in grid infrastructure and storage Finance and investment: De-risk private sector investments in EMDEs, provide long-term contracts and set binding national RE targets Demand-side management: Reward demand flexibility, support cross-sector electrification, and ensure affordability to consumers Road transport Infrastructure: Coordinated, standardized, and incentivized rollout of interoperable EV charging infrastructure Demand creation: Set mandates, tax vehicles by emissions, and address higher initial costs of EVs, including for low-income consumers Finance and investment: Expand concessional finance for EMDEs and offer incentives to boost EV manufacturing Steel Demand creation: Scale public procurement, catalyze private sector demand and strengthen carbon pricing mechanisms Standards and definitions: Develop internationally aligned definitions and certification for low- carbon steel and lifecycle assessments Finance and investment: Provide technology- agnostic funding and support access to low- cost renewable energy Cement & concrete Finance and investment: Scale financing for innovations and provide OPEX support for CCUS projects Demand creation: Implement green public and private sector procurement mandates Standards and certifications: Introduce carbon intensity- and performance-based standards to encourage innovation Buildings Demand creation: Introduce building performance thresholds, enhance green public procurement, and update building codes, incl. resilience Finance and investment: Support CAPEX, tie concessional finance to carbon impacts and provide differential support by segment Standards and certifications: Apply common standards based on embodied carbon and whole- lifecycle carbon assessments Hydrogen Demand creation: Implement industry-wide demand policies for low-carbon hydrogen utilization and implement carbon pricing Finance and investment: Encourage public-private risk-sharing, develop infrastructure incentives and long-term offtake contracts Standards and certifications: Establish harmonized standards and pilot agreements between countries with common H2 certification Fertilizer* Demand creation: Introduce incentives for offtakers and introduce carbon pricing or carbon border adjustment mechanisms Finance and investment: Introduce funding and risk-sharing mechanisms to unlock project financing Technology support and innovation: Establish international public- private consortia to pool R&D funds and share knowledge Other priorities Global top 3 priorities * Nitrogen-based fertilizers The headline policy priorities are the ones the respondents selected the most frequently in each sector as requiring the most urgent progress. The specific policy priorities are based on interviews and sector consultations with leading businesses and business organizations. Source: Barometer ’25 Survey (N=304)
