--- Page 1 ---
POOL CAR SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Making vehicles available in a carpool for employees is a measure that businesses can put in place to reduce vehicle ownership amongst employees. These arrangements are especially interesting in cases where employees need a car only in certain conditions – for example, to access meetings in other facilities than their usual office – but can commute with different modes for their regular activities. A car is made available to employees who book them beforehand. Conditions for car usage can be set for work-purpose only or also to include leisure and the collection hours and conditions can vary. Smart technologies such as mobile apps can make implementation more efficient and responsive to the needs of both employees and the business. Most companies have dedicated parking for pool cars to encourage their usage. Employees are often encouraged to use these cars with colleagues who need to go to the same destination. To improve the carbon footprint of this measure, electric vehicles (EVs) were put in place by our members. Carpool EVs allow employees to test drive and get used to driving EVs, and in some cases, lead to adoption by the employees for personal use. Businesses reluctant to organize a carpool due to the insurance and maintenance it entails can resort to fleet management companies that can provide this service. This measure is also a popular means to increase flexibility for employees to face unforeseen circumstances and was one of the solutions deployed to help essential workers get to their workplace during the COVID-19 crisis. For some of our members, the COVID-19 pandemic was a reason to stop providing pool cars for employees – working from home and other more sustainable measures were adopted – and employees were reluctant to share a car. Objectives pursued: Improve flexibility and accessibility; improve attractiveness and employee well-being. Context: This measure can be adopted in most contexts. However, it demands appropriate infrastructure and organization (such as car parks, key recovery, rules on fuel, booking systems and charging facilities when using EVs). The use of pool cars should be closely monitored to avoid increasing environmental impact through them. Main benefits A pool car provides employees with flexibility and can reduce car ownership and parking space. It also gives a chance to test a more sustainable mode, which can lead to EV adoption when employees’ consider buying a car. Cost elements: As a corporate program, costs incurred can be high, depending on the size and type of the available fleet. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed The main challenge reported by companies is the high cost for a low return – employees are happy to have the option available but do not use it often and still own a private car. To ensure an adequate cost/ benefit, companies should reassess this measure frequently and make sure employees are aware of the availability of pool cars. The measure can also increase emissions and pollution. To reduce this risk, EVs can be used instead of conventional cars. Metrics for impact evaluation Impact is hard to evaluate, but employers usually track carpool usage and correlate it to car ownership. Our members providing pool cars to employees
