--- Page 1 ---
Organization Name: AptarGroup Inc. Industry: Manufacturing - Packaging Number of employees: 13,000 Annual revenue (2020): USD $ 2.9 Billion Website: https://www.aptar.com CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS CASE STUDY Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? Circular metrics can help companies evaluate their effectiveness in using resources and take decisions in support of sustainability objectives that cover multiple impacts like greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), biodiversity, resources use, etc. Common KPIs facilitate conversations across value chains, helping to set shared priorities, measuring and comparing performance (circular and linear) consistently. At Aptar, we plan to use CTI to measure our actions and commitments through the optimization of product solutions – e.g. increasing recycled content, bio- feedstock and recyclability, and operations – e.g. energy efficiency and water conservation. For this use case, we focused on our operations located in Asia to determine a baseline understanding of the circular performance of our product solutions and identify improvement opportunities. Key challenges As we set to work on this use case, we focused on collecting information aligned to the format required by CTI. We wanted accurate information and focused on the most transparent data available, and on identifying the system boundaries and the key inflows (mass based) and outflows (product based). Our biggest challenge was classifying our inflows and outflows efficiently. We decided to include raw materials (plastics, metals and rubbers), purchased goods (e.g. semi-finished products) and energy. These three groups represent the main contributors to our product level environmental impact under this use case. Durable goods and auxiliary materials used in our production processes were not included based on their smaller level of impact. We selected indicators that provided insights on resource use efficiency and that illustrate the added business value for our company’s circular material flows. Solutions While working on this use case, we understood that a good solution to categorizing inflows and outflows efficiently was to integrate and automatize the data collection process. This allowed for a less manual process. We created an internal team that managed bi-weekly meetings and quarterly reviews. The team involved key stakeholders for data collection and data export from our internal tools into the CTI online tool. Aptar is a B2B company. This means that we do not have full visibility on the end to life management and recyclability scenarios for the finished product outflow. We realize that this is one of the most important outflows for a more circular economy, therefore – along with data from our LCA tool - we considered databases from external partner organizations (e.g. Ellen MacArthur Foundation). Results As a result of this initial use case, tangible results emerged about our raw materials and energy use. CTI confirmed that we should increase drastically the percentage of recycled content (and/or renewable feedstock) to align with our commitment to reduce fossil feedstock in our product solutions. This use case highlighted that we should remain focused on our key priorities: increasing the use of renewable sources for energy and increasing recycled content within our products to minimize the extraction of new raw materials. We are now expanding use of CTI to more of our operations. This will help us map and assess circularity of other sites operating in different market segments while we work on standardizing data collection internally. Overall, CTI results provided more visibility on the impact of circular choices on our baseline. The next step entails understanding circular performance from the perspective of resource use optimization and its alignment to our global sustainability strategy. We are proud to continue to partner with WBCSD to further business progress toward a more circular economy. As a participant in the Circular Transition Indicators project, we helped identify tools to better self-assess our use and reuse of resources. We can now prioritize and establish targets to monitor our progress within the circularity space. Stephan B. Tanda, President and CEO, Aptar
