--- Page 1 ---
SDG Sector Roadmaps

--- Page 2 ---
Context Achieving the SDGs and harnessing the potential they represent is beyond the reach of any single company. The ambitions of the SDGs call for entire industry sectors to come together to plot a common SDG vision for their industries and develop detailed “roadmaps” to guide their shift to sustainable development in line with the SDG agenda. Project Overview Through the SDG Sector Roadmap project, WBCSD looks to support our member companies and the wider business community in developing robust SDG roadmaps. These will help guide and inspire sectors as they seek to optimize their contributions to the SDGs. WBCSD is working directly with numerous sectors on their road-mapping initiatives. We have also published freely available guidelines which outline best practice in terms of the road- mapping process. Approach Value • Offer guidance and facilitation to WBCSD sector representatives as they look to develop a collective understanding of the most impactful ways in which their industry can interact with the SDGs. Impact • Bring together key sector players to identify tangible action plans to maximize the sector’s potential to impact the SDGs. Voice • Provide sectors within WBCSD and beyond with a platform to highlight how they have the potential to contribute to the SDGs and identify key enablers to optimize this contribution. Who is involved WBCSD has already convened roadmap working groups for a collection of leading chemical sector member companies and industry associations as well as its Forest Solutions Group. A number of other groups are also actively considering embarking on roadmaps for their respective sectors. Project Outline: SDG Sector Roadmaps Options for engagement • Explore the roadmap process via our SDG Sector Roadmap Guidelines. • Come together with sector peers at a regional or global level to develop your own SDG sector roadmap. James Gomme, Director, SDGs gomme@wbcsd.org Uta Jungermann, Manager, SDGs jungermann@wbcsd.org
