--- Page 1 ---
PROVIDING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLES SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION With electric vehicles (EVs) progressively becoming more popular, making charging infrastructure available is one of the main hurdles businesses and public authorities face. To help in the transition towards decarbonized vehicles, employers can make infrastructure for EVs available. Major infrastructures include charging stations and parking spaces. By providing charging and parking at the workplace, businesses can increase their attractiveness for employees. In some cases, these infrastructures can be made available to others – visitors, partners or locals. Businesses can make these infrastructure investments break even and contribute to local mobility by giving access to this infrastructure through a transport stakeholder network or a local transport community. Companies are encouraged to partner with local authorities and other key stakeholders such as real estate developers, property owners and energy providers to ensure minimal operational setbacks. Objectives pursued: Reduce local pollution; improve business attractiveness; contribute to higher EV adoption; reduce carbon footprint. Context: This measure will be more effective in countries that are now pushing forward with electrification and have in place government incentive programs to encourage the provision of EV infrastructure. Such countries include Japan and predominantly those in Europe – where many WBCSD members are located. Main benefits Offering EV charging at work increases accessibility, especially if the public charging network is not well-developed in the region. It can attract and retain employees who are increasingly concerned with environmental and social issues. The availability of EV infrastructure contributes to reducing carbon footprint and local pollution and incentivizing the shift to EVs by employees and society. Cost elements: Depending on the context and particular infrastructure a business seeks to provide, costs can be high. One approach to reducing costs is to phase growth of charging infrastructure, in line with the speed of electrification of the company car fleet. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed One of the main challenges linked to providing EV infrastructure is to decide how and if to charge users. In some cases, providing free charging for employees might be considered a benefit, and therefore subject to taxation. Furthermore, supplying EV infrastructure can be associated with high costs. One way to reduce the cost is to make EV charging available to as many users as possible and charge for usage. However, many businesses might not want to handle payments or give everyone access to the charging station. Providing free charging at the beginning and then transitioning to paying at a later stage helps reduce implementation complexity. Part of these hurdles can be overcome through partnerships with energy and EV infrastructure providers. Finally, EVs will not reduce the business’ carbon footprint in all contexts. If carbon footprint reduction is one of the goals, companies should be mindful of the local energy mix, provide renewable power or buy green certificates for the electricity their employees use. Metrics for impact evaluation Usage of charging infrastructure is one of the main evaluation metrics. Employee satisfaction can also be a way to measure the impact made through provided infrastructure. Our members who have provided EV infrastructure for their businesses
