--- Page 1 ---
PROVIDING MICROMOBILITY OPTIONS SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Micromobility options such as shared or private bicycles, e-bikes, e-scooters, e-skateboards and small electric vehicles are often advertised as a convenient and affordable complement to cars. Increasing available options for employees is important to ensure accessibility. Micromobility helps reduce congestion and some of these options contribute to reducing the environmental footprint. Despite the use of the general term “micromobility” for all these options, their benefits and costs vary, and should be carefully considered. Third-party service providers can facilitate the deployment for companies. These can provide reservation and monitoring systems to manage operations and financing options or mobility credits. Deployment of micromobility can also be eased by putting in place infrastructure to help its adoption, like lockers for safety equipment and secured parking spaces, as well as charging stations. In some cases, making micromobility available to a wider public, not only employees, can be a means to encourage wider adoption. Objectives pursued: Improved accessibility to sites, reduced congestion and transport equity. Context: Micromobility has had rapid uptake in cities of Asia, Europe and the US. Legislation is still evolving in many cities and must be considered before proposing an option. Some countries have extended incentives for sustainable transport to finance micromobility for businesses and for individuals. Main benefits Micromobility offers convenient and flexible transport, reduces congestion and can reduce energy consumption and vehicular emissions. Some options provide health benefits by encouraging an active lifestyle. Cost elements: Dependent on the mobility options, complementary systems adopted, or third-party service providers deployed. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Inadequate funding and the lack of a viable business model can be a barrier to a modal shift to micromobility options. Furthermore, the lack of charging infrastructure can also be a barrier. Businesses can overcome these by going through third-party mobility providers and by subsidizing micromobility. Incentives exist in some countries. Metrics for impact evaluation Companies can measure impact through adoption of micromobility modes and reduction in drive- alone, pollution and emissions. Our members providing employees with micromobility options
