--- Page 1 ---
ARCADIS’ INTEGRATED SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY POLICY Summary Arcadis has established an integrated sustainable mobility policy to guide employees and give them the means to travel with the lowest environmental impact. This integrated approach does not only make sustainable options available to employees but also encourages their usage and accompanies behavior change. Company background Arcadis is a consultancy and engineering company in the built and natural environment. It aims to make a sustainable impact with the projects it does for clients. Arcadis is proud to invest in sustainable operations, leading by example. The best practice described here was developed in the Netherlands. Arcadis Netherlands has around 2,300 employees, spread through 13 locations in the country. The mobility context The Netherlands has well- developed bike lanes and a performing public transport network. A national ticketing solution exists – the same card can be used for trains, buses, shared bike and car systems. The Netherlands has put in place a national mobility budget. Best practice Sustainable mobility is an important focus point for Arcadis: 94% of the company’s carbon footprint is linked to mobility. In order to reduce carbon emissions, Arcadis has chosen an integrated approach to mobility, with six focus points: 1. Move offices to main train stations (2010: 11%, 2019: 100%) and facilitate flexible working (including working from home). 2. Provide a mobility card for every employee, facilitating the use of public transport and shared bike and car services. 3. Parking policy: no parking spots at offices in rush hours, parking further from the office than the train station, electric vehicles (EVs) allowed near the office. 4. Reduction in the number of company cars, combined with transition to EVs. 5. Less and sustainable flights: for trips shorter than 700 km, employees should travel by train instead of plane, and prefer flights using biofuels when flying. 6. Stimulate and reward sustainable travel behavior through campaigns and a personal mobility assistant, the Fynch app. The app allows to track all mobility behavior, provides personal statistics and has conveniently been integrated into the travel expense reimbursement system. Results Thanks to its integrated approach, Arcadis has achieved a 49% carbon emissions reduction in nine years. The mobility policy has also contributed to cost savings, estimated at around EUR €1 billion per year, despite increased real estate costs from the offices closer to the main train stations. Having a sustainable mobility policy has also contributed to giving Arcadis better exposure as a sustainable company – they are walking the talk. And, through this exposure, they have also increased their attractiveness for sustainability aware professionals. Overcoming challenges The main challenge identified in this case was to keep all stakeholders aligned. To overcome this challenge, Arcadis decided to make mobility a board room theme. The subject is addressed through a project group with representatives from all departments and a steering group with the relevant directors. To develop a strong, sustainable mobility culture and remain updated on new developments, Arcadis also participates in networks discussing sustainable mobility like Anders Reizen. They actively benchmark with peers and learn from others.
