--- Page 1 ---
PROVIDING FACILITIES TO SUPPORT ACTIVE TRANSPORT MODES SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Active transport modes are non-motorized or human-powered forms of transport requiring physical activity such as walking and cycling. Major infrastructure needed to facilitate active transport, such as bike lanes and sidewalks, is part of urban or municipal development. Businesses can incentivize use of active modes by providing resources such as lockers, changing rooms, showers, secured bike parking and storage spaces and building cycle lanes on their own premises when needed. These facilities need to be safe, pleasant and convenient for people of varied abilities. Lockers, parking and storage spaces can be shared or dedicated for employees. The choice of which type to adopt mainly depends on the mobility patterns. Objective pursued: Reduce carbon footprint and pollution; reduce energy consumption and vehicle emissions; reduce congestion; improve business attractiveness; improve employees’ health and well-being by fostering an active lifestyle; incentivize sustainable mobility. Context: These measures are most effective when basic urban infrastructure that supports active transport is available. Businesses can effectively roll out active transport options in these cases and further provide the necessary resources needed to ensure their convenience, safety and accessibility. Main benefits Providing supportive facilities is a major incentive for encouraging the use of active modes by employees. It also improves corporate and societal awareness, the accessibility and convenience of active transport, increases employee satisfaction and encourages a healthy lifestyle. Cost elements: Travel cost savings for commuters shifting from cars to active modes. Company costs are incurred in providing active mode facilities, but many companies can also reduce parking costs thanks to this measure. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Despite supporting facilities or infrastructure, active transport modes may still face low adoption. Campaign events, positive messaging, employee meetings and other creative initiatives can be adopted to address barriers. Safety, security, hygiene and use coordination concerns can also be managed through cleaning and maintenance routines and adequate security measures to keep bikes and transport equipment safe. Dimensioning the needed infrastructure and choosing between locker sizes and types can be a great challenge. Mobility surveys and specific surveys on employees' expectations can help to gather information to ease these decisions; including aspects of weather or summer/winter capacities. Metrics for impact evaluation The availability of active mode facilities reflects a sustainable business, evidencing their supportive reduction in emissions, number of employees shifting to active modes and travel costs saved. Employee satisfaction can also be a way to measure impact made through provided facilities. Our members providing facilities to support active modes
