--- Page 1 ---
ARCADIS’ PARTICIPATION IN THE LOW CAR DIET CHALLENGE Summary Arcadis regularly participates in the low car diet challenge , where participants compete on using cars less for one month. This challenge contributes to building awareness about sustainability, allowing participants to assess their carbon footprint. Thanks to gamification elements (i.e., competition between teams, dashboards, rewards and an award ceremony) it attracts more participants. Due to its timeframe – a one-month duration – it contributes to a long-term behavioral change. And thanks to the visit of a challenge team, a recruitment package and a results report, organizations participating in the challenge can gather information about their employees’ mobility behavior and hear expert advice on how to make mobility more sustainable. Company background Arcadis is a consultancy and engineering company in the built and natural environment. It aims to make a sustainable impact with the projects it does for clients. Arcadis is proud to invest in sustainable operations, leading by example. The best practice described here was developed in the Netherlands. Arcadis Netherlands has around 2,300 employees, spread through 13 locations in the country. The mobility context The Netherlands has a well- developed network of public transport and bike lanes. A national ticketing solution exists – the same card can be used for trains, buses, shared bike and car systems. The Netherlands has put in place a national mobility budget. Best practice Arcadis Netherlands regularly participates in challenges or organizes campaigns to encourage sustainable mobility amongst their employees. Challenges encourage trying new mobility behaviors, allow to inform employees of their options, and to reward sustainable behavior. Arcadis favors longer challenges, since they have a greater impact on behavior change beyond the challenge. The national low car diet challenge is one of the competitions that the company has been joining for several years. Results Participating in the low car diet challenge helps to create awareness and to test sustainable modes. Furthermore, it helps promote permanent behavior shift: analyses show that participants commute 35% less by car even after the challenge is over. Overcoming challenges The two main challenges in the case of campaigning and participating in competitions is to get employees to adhere and to achieve results in the long term. The organizers of the low car diet challenge have put in place a series of measures to help participating organizations attract participants (brochures, one-day business visits, etc.) , which help increase employees’ participation. Arcadis has integrated this challenge as part of the firm’s culture, thanks to the involvement of many employees. And thanks to its duration – a month – the low car diet challenge has an impressive record in creating long term change.
