--- Page 1 ---
Roteks was founded in 1986 and is active in design, product development, R&D, production, and sales & marketing with an annual average order volume of 9 M textile products. Sustainability and innovation have always been among our primary objectives. As a company working with a wide range of suppliers and exporting products to different countries, we are aware of our influence on the entire value chain. Measuring and having a better understanding of circular metrics and assessing different aspects of our circularity through CTI is helping us to develop and implement a circular transition roadmap, identify our priorities, and set quantifiable targets. We plan to keep track of our circular metrics to improve our sustainability and innovation strategy. Industry: Denim products Number of employees: 313 Annual revenue: EUR 76 Million Website: https://www.roteks.com.tr CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS CASE STUDIES Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? Sustainability and innovation have always been among our primary objectives. As a company working with a wide range of suppliers and exporting products to different countries, we are aware of our influence on the entire value chain. With our environmental and sustainability policy called “NatuRight”, we have committed to measure and reduce our resource consumption and waste generation. Measuring and having a better understanding of circular metrics and assessing different aspects of our circularity through CTI is helping us to develop and implement a circular transition roadmap, identify our priorities, and set quantified targets. We plan to keep track of our circularity metrics to improve our sustainability and innovation strategy. Benefits We considered the entire production process including all suppliers where the production activities related to Roteks orders took place. We measured all indicators as they were relevant for our sector and processes. CTI requires data from value chain partners which makes data collection the most challenging and labour-intensive part of the process. Some data points were relatively easy to obtain, while the majority required collaboration with different departments and suppliers, especially for the inflows. As the suppliers produce for different clients, accessing and calculating Roteks related data represented a considerable challenge. Some suppliers could not provide the data that we needed. For the outflows, especially products, we had to consider the different countries where our products were used and the recovery practices in those countries. Solutions With the guidance of CTI’s online tool and our consultant, we could make smart assumptions for the points where data was insufficient. We also used national and international data and made approximations for our case accordingly. We checked the inflow and outflow mass balances and improved the accuracy level of our study. We noted all assumptions, and ensured that we were on the safe side. Regarding the potential recovery rates, we focused on the different components of our products, namely the fabrics, accessories and packaging and developed our own decision algorithm applicable to our product groups. Results Working with CTI, including all its challenges, was an enlightening process. We decided to focus on the data collection system which we already started to improve upon, and included circular metrics to our data collection and analysis processes. Based on the results of the circularity assessment and the international circularity and sustainability targets of the sector, we identified the improvement opportunities and developed a 3-year roadmap for our circularity journey. This roadmap includes actions related to our suppliers, as well as the entire Roteks team; we will ensure this process is supported especially with the involvement of our innovation and R&D teams. As a manufacturer aiming to take its own brand to the next level, it has become a necessity for us to master the definitions, scope, and measurement methods of circularity. Within the scope of circularity, we must understand our brand’s area of responsibility, set targets to minimize our environmental impact, and adopt a preference and governance style that prioritizes continuous improvement. Evrim Kartaloglu, Head of Sustainability Committee, ROTEKS We would like to thank WBCSD, BCSD Turkey, Mavi Prizma and Circular IQ for their contribution to the process, and particularly to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and Netherlands Technical Assistance Co-operation Fund for supporting this study as part of the Circular Vouchers Technical Assistance Scheme of Turkey Circular Economy Platform.
