--- Page 1 ---
Title Just published: 10 th edition of the Responsible Business in Poland. Good Practices report Blurb April 2012 – Poland’s Responsible Business Forum has just published its latest “Responsible Business in Poland 2011. Good Practices” report. This is the 10 th edition of a unique document which summarizes companies’ involvement in the implementation of responsible business principles and offers an overview of other corporate social responsibility initiatives. Article The 10 th edition of this annual publication follows a slightly new format. This year, for the first time, the report is divided into thematic areas, based on the division employed by the ISO 26000 norm. Of the 300 examples of good practice submitted for the report, some 209 made the final cut in the following thematic areas: organizational governance (18 practices), human rights (5), employee practices/aspects (66), the environment (37), fair operating practices (8), consumer issues (4), and local community involvement and development (71). In addition to an analysis of good business practice by some of Poland’s leading companies, the report also includes 17 articles written by Polish and foreign experts focusing on topics that dominated during 2011 and predicting trends for 2012, including social protests, consumer boycotts promoted over the Internet, the Rio+20 Conference, and social actions in the context of Euro 2012, among others. The publication also includes a review of research, press articles and details of important events that have marked the last year. “The new format that we have launched this year shows not only individual practices, but also trends and pathways for CSR development in Poland,” noted Mirella Panek- Owsiańska, Chair of Responsible Business Forum. “The growing number of practices each year shows us that the concept of CSR is doing well and is set to develop .” Among some of the highlights of the report, an area that proved among the most popular was that of ‘employee practices’ where ‘safety in the workplace’ scored highly. Some 20 practices were singled out as good examples of action by employees, including safe driving, employee engagement in safety at work assessments, and competitions to assist employees to memorize knowledge of safety procedures. Similarly, ‘corporate volunteering’ garnered a fair deal of attention, largely on account of the fact that 2011 was the European Year of Volunteering.

--- Page 2 ---
As far as the environment was concerned, a total of 21 practices were singled out as good examples of corporate activity in favor of environmental education, ranging from ecological education in the workplace to educating children and the local community. As in previous years, the area of ‘local community involvement and development’ by business in Poland scored very highly with ‘cooperation between business and higher education units’ singled out as a particularly effective example of good business practice with no less than 13 examples presented. Finally, a new category was included in the report this year, that of ‘consumer issues’. Although only four examples of good practice in this area were presented, it nonetheless represents a new and important benchmark against which to assess good practice among Polish business. Examples of good practice in this area include Grupa TP that has created the NN Assistant – a special application which uses mobile phone technology to assist blind and older people. While PGNiG has organized several workshops for its employees to discuss how best to serve clients with disabilities. The Report was launched on March 29, 2012 during the 4 th edition of the CSR Marketplace organized by the Responsible Business Forum. During the event, a special awards ceremony took place at which the winners of a contest organized for journalists writing about CSR were announced. The short version of the Report is available in English. A Longer version (in Polish only) is available for download (PDF) or as an e-book from www.odpowiedzialnybinzes.pl . Responsible Business Forum is one of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) Regional Network partner organizations.
