--- Page 1 ---
RIDEAMIGOS - SUBSIDIZING EMPLOYEE TRANSIT USE Summary To provide employees with efficient commute options and increase corporate sustainability, a large employer in the San Francisco Bay Area in the United States subsidizes public transport and provides a variety of low emissions transportation choices at no cost to employees. Through a commuting hub software solution supplied by RideAmigos, the company reimburses the total cost of transit fares on a per-trip, daily or monthly basis across several regional transit systems. The measure makes it less costly for employees to choose alternatives to driving a personal car and improves flexibility, resulting in a meaningful reduction in the drive-alone rate. Company background RideAmigos is a commute management solutions company working to take cars off the road by empowering commuters to make smarter transportation choices. Its mobile and web-based tools and apps combine innovative technology with proven principles of behavioral science to optimize the employee commute. The mobility context This initiative was implemented at a large employer in the San Francisco Bay Area. The company campus is in a high-growth area with moderate transit access and parking is free for staff. Drive-alone rates are high amongst employees in the area, although several public transportation options exist. With sustainability and future growth in mind, the employer needs to decrease the drive-alone rate. Best practice The company introduced a 100% subsidy for public transport use, eligible for all full-time employees at the Bay Area campus. The company also provided additional private transportation at no cost using low-emission vehicles, ensuring employees had options when public transport was unavailable. RideAmigos’ commute hub solution collected employee trip data, applied eligibility and other criteria, allowed for administrator audit and passed it to the payroll system for reimbursement. Reimbursements were capped based on the cost of per-trip, daily or monthly fares. Results The program, launched in 2012, contributed to a 16% decrease in the drive-alone rate in the first year. Over time, the program has achieved a 56% decrease in the overall drive-alone rate (prior to the pandemic). Overcoming challenges Administering a flexible daily subsidy across multiple transit systems as part of a broad set of transportation offerings and incentives requires data collection and validation from various sources, including employee inputs. These processes were automated and simplified by the commute hub solutions set up by RideAmigos and managed by a cross-functional team from the Transportation and Human Resources departments. Contact RideAmigos
