--- Page 1 ---
RIDESHARING SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Ridesharing is one of the most widely-known measures promoted to reduce single-occupancy trips. It can be put in place with close to no tools and investment by simply creating a carpooling board or spreadsheet. However, adoption rates are often low when there are no tools and associated incentives. Some technical tools that can make ridesharing implementation more effective are third-party commute platforms or demand and offer matching algorithms. Ridesharing platforms can be created and customized for one particular company, or companies can encourage the use of existing ridesharing platforms. Beyond the technical aspects, one of the great difficulties towards ridesharing adoption is trust – not everyone wants to share a car with strangers. Adopting this mode can be encouraged through community creation and by having a trustworthy third party like a local authority who approves participants in the program. Other common incentives to increase adoption are to promote events and communicate the benefits of carsharing. Gamification or financial incentives can also increase adoption. Objective pursued: Reduce energy consumption and emissions; reduction in vehicle miles travelled; reduce parking infrastructure demand; propose an alternative to driving alone. Context : This system can be adopted in most contexts and has proven to be simple to implement. It achieves better results when incorporated in a sustainable corporate mobility strategy and associated with measures encouraging its adoption. Main benefits Ridesharing reduces the demand for more parking areas, and is a convenient way to reduce drive- alone even in zones where other transport offers are scarce. Cost element: Costs can be close to zero for informal carsharing schemes, but will be higher if incentives are associated. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Companies that introduce ridesharing may face challenges such as low adoption rates from employees fearing to lose flexibility. Measures to make up for when the system temporarily fails, like “guaranteed ride home” programs, can help reduce this apprehension. Further encouragement can be given by dedicating parking space close to the office for employee ridesharing, making parking free or offering monetary incentives for employees willing to share their ride. Metrics for impact evaluation Impact made through ridesharing can be determined using a comparative analysis of vehicular emission reduction, number of employees signed up to carpool, number of parking places used per day or week and number of employee travels and costs saved. Our members providing ridesharing solutions
