--- Page 1 ---
Avenue du Bouchet 2BIS, 1209 Geneva, Switzerland wbcsd.org The Soft Commodities Forum of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development The SCF founding principles The Soft Commodities Forum (SCF) is a global platform for leading soft commodities companies, convened by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) for the purpose of advancing collective action around common sustainability challenges. The Forum is made up of WBCSD member companies who share a vision of ensuring sustainable agriculture supply chains and working in partnership with government, producers, consumers and civil society to create a safer, more sustainable food system. SCF member companies each have pledged to eliminate deforestation from their agricultural supply chains worldwide, deploying credible, tested science-based methodologies for defining forests and biodiversity. The SCF seeks to advance solutions that balance environmental, social and economic interests for the agriculture sector in the agriculturally-rich areas where they operate, respecting the rights of local communities and indigenous people, and applying free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) for land purchases and use. The SCF is committed to improving sector transparency and traceability of key supply chains over time, through the establishment of voluntary standards, shared methodologies, and transparent reporting for monitoring and verifying company progress towards the implementation of company policies to eliminate deforestation. The SCF companies disclose progress on shared key performance indicators (KPIs) through bi-annual reporting to measure progressive reductions in deforestation and land conversion in targeted agricultural supply chains. Beyond supply chain traceability, the SCF launched a landscape intervention strategy entitled the Farmer First Clusters (FFC) to implement financial incentives for producers to avoid deforestation, advance sustainable agricultural practices, and protect environmental services in priority high-risk landscapes. The SCF is an industry body made up of WBCSD member companies committed to advancing sustainable business practices and voluntary minimum standards. — Throughout its activities, the SCF seeks to comply with all applicable requirements including competition laws. — Any standard will be public, voluntary and open to all. The SCF first aims to tackle land use challenges in the Brazil Cerrado, encouraging others in the sector to follow their efforts. — SCF member companies believe that reductions in deforestation and conversion are most effectively addressed when a specific geography and crop is targeted. The SCF intends to address other areas of mutual and identified social or environmental challenge related to agricultural supply chains — These efforts will include clear objectives and goals for measuring progress and reported. Members of the SCF include: Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge, Cargill COFCO International, Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC), and Viterra. The Soft Commodities Forum anticipates an expansion of its membership to additional WBCSD members as its work progresses.
