--- Page 1 ---
Our progress highlights from December 2023 to November 2024 include: Expanded scope and enhanced disclosure of deforestation- and conversion-free soy sourcing This year’s report presents SCF’s expanded monitoring and reporting scope to include the entire Cerrado biome, covering over 200 million hectares across 800 municipalities. This represents a 1124% increase from its initial focus on 25 municipalities in 2019. Alongside an expanded scope, SCF has implemented a renewed verification protocol, and the adoption of a risk-based assessment framework. Farmer First Clusters (FFC) Initiative: scaling landscape transformation The FFC initiative’s first annual report highlights the enrollment of 178 farms, covering 700,000 hectares, achieving the conservation of 5,460 hectares of native vegetation, 177 hectares of ecological restoration, and over 1.3 gigatons of CO2- eq emissions avoided. It also introduces a scalable financial model for producer incentivization to reduce the opportunity cost of DCF production in the long-term. Launch of new partnerships The SCF strives for meaningful engagement with several key stakeholders, including the Consumer Goods Forum Forest Positive Coalition (CGF FCP). At New York Climate Week 2024, the SCF and the CGF FPC, in collaboration with the Tropical Forest Alliance, announced the Sustainable Landscapes Partnership . This will focus on driving investment to transition priority commodity-producing landscapes to forest positive resilient sourcing areas, aiming to develop standardized methods for landscape monitoring and financing DCF production. Additionally, at the end of 2024 WBCSD is launching a new Landscape Accelerator – Brazil (LAB) which will advance the broad-scale regenerative transformation of Brazilian landscapes, beginning in the Cerrado. This is a time-bound sprint towards COP30-Belem with key partners from the private sector, finance, and government including the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture. The LAB will draw from the leading work of the SCF, and help to amplify and embed its models (going beyond DCF soy) into policy and finance levers supporting holistic regenerative agricultural systems in Brazil. The Soft Commodities Forum (SCF), led by the World Business Council For Sustainable Development (WBCSD) , enables collaboration between six leading agribusinesses to identify solutions that eliminate soy-driven deforestation and conversion of native vegetation in the Brazilian Cerrado. December 2024 Soft Commodities Forum Progress Report EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

--- Page 2 ---
Click on the logos to view SCF companies: Acknowledgements We would like to extend our gratitude to our partners and collaborators at the Accountability Framework Initiative (AFI), Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oils (ABIOVE), Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável (CEBDS), Brazilian Rural Society, the Amazon Environmental Research Institute (IPAM), the Consumer Goods Forum Forest Positive Coalition, GIZ Agri-chains project Brazil, SustainCert, the Tropical Forest Alliance (TFA), Proforest, Conecta Cerrado, Parque Vida Cerrado, Produzindo Certo, Rede ILPF, Serasa, Solidaridad, the Produce, Conserve, Include (PCI) Initiative, and other key partners in the value chain and beyond. Compliance SCF has processes and procedures in place to ensure that all of its actions are compliant with applicable laws, including antitrust. About the Soft Commodities Forum Companies that buy, sell and process soft commodities such as soybeans play a unique role in connecting soy suppliers with wholesale processors and retail customers around the world. They have an opportunity to help drive progress on the elimination of soy-driven deforestation and conversion. The SCF’s six current members – ADM, Bunge, Cargill, COFCO International, Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC) and Viterra – are among the world’s largest soy exporters and are committed to the elimination of deforestation in their supply chains where they operate in the Cerrado. Hosted by WBCSD, the SCF contributes to our food and agriculture pathway agenda by focusing on promoting the nature-, climate and farmer-positive production of soy, contributing to food system transformation and our Vision 2050 strategy. About WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a global community of over 225 of the world’s leading businesses driving systems transformation for a better world in which 9+ billion people can live well, within planetary boundaries, by mid-century. Together, we transform the systems we work in to limit the impact of the climate crisis, restore nature and tackle inequality. We accelerate value chain transformation across key sectors and reshape the financial system to reward sustainable leadership and action through a lower cost of capital. Through the exchange of best practices, improving performance, accessing education, forming partnerships, and shaping the policy agenda, we drive progress in businesses and sharpen the accountability of their performance. Follow us on X and LinkedIn www.wbcsd.org Copyright © WBCSD, November 2024 2 Access the full digital report
