--- Page 1 ---
w w Land Use Change Improved agricultural practices lead to land conservation to meet the nature imperative THE FARMER FIRST CLUSTERS INITIATIVE WOULDN’T BE POSSIBLE WITHOUT COMMITTED PARTNERS FARMER FIRST CLUSTERS OUR MISSION ▼ Investment in Cerrado landscape approaches can incentivize soy production that supports forest and land conservation. The Farmer First Clusters is based on the creation of a new financial model and a smart-mix of solutions. Our vision is to accelerate investments that benefit climate, nature and livelihoods. HOW IT WORKS JOIN US IN OUR ENGAGEMENT TO TRANSFORM CERRADO LANDSCAPES We believe $50 million are required to stand up the Farmer First Clusters. To get involved: Ricieri Vidal Marchi: vidal-marchi@wbcsd.org INVEST IN A SUSTAINABLE SOY FUTURE Tocantins Tocantins has experienced 19% of recent soy expansion and includes 22 SCF priority municipalities. Integrated Farming Integrated livestock, crops and forests, ensuring more sustainable land use Expansion over Pastureland Incentives for soy expansion over pasture + intensification of cattle production to free up existing pasture Surplus Legal Reserve Compensation payment to soy farmers who could legally deforest Restoration of Degraded Land Native vegetation restoration on degraded pastureland Sustainable Production + Forest Code Compliance Technical assistance to increase sustainable production and Forest Code Compliance Green Finance Favorable finance in exchange for zero deforestation commitments Western Bahia The second largest deforestation frontier in the Matopiba region, Bahia accounts for 16% of recent expansion. Western Mato Grosso Mato Grosso being the largest soy producing state, the FFC will use established partnerships with local governing bodies to deploy solutions. Southern Maranhão With 10% of recent soy expansion, the landscape hosts nine SCF priority municipalities. 1 We accelerate solutions that best incentivize farmers 2 We “cluster” investment where it matters most 3 We maximize impact for climate, nature and equity Implementing partners INDICATORS Private sector partners Land use change Regenerative agricultural practices lead to land and water conservation and higher yields, reducing the demand for native vegetation conversion. w Farmer livelihoods By engaging farmers and local experts, we strive toward long-term economic returns that can encourage others to follow. w Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emission reductions mitigate climate change and are scalable to other regions In collaboration with
