--- Page 1 ---
The farmer first clusters initiative wouldn’t be possible without committed partners Our Mission Join us in our engagement to transform Cerrado landscapes. To get involved: Lucie Smith: lucie.smith@wbcsd.org Ricieri Vidal Marchi: vidal-marchi@wbcsd.org Farmer First Clusters Invest in the future of Sustainable Soy Implementing partners Private sector partners In collaboration with Investment in Cerrado landscape approaches can incentivize forest positive commodities production. → The Farmer First Clusters is based on the creation of a new financial model and a smart-mix of farmer-centric solutions. → Our vision is to accelerate investments that benefit climate, nature and livelihoods. → How it works w w Tocantins Tocantins has experienced 19% of recent soy expansion and includes 22 SCF priority municipalities. Western Bahia The second largest deforestation frontier in the Matopiba region, Bahia accounts for 16% of recent expansion. Western Mato Grosso Mato Grosso being the largest soy producing state, the FFC will use established partnerships with local governing bodies to deploy solutions. Southern Maranhão With 10% of recent soy expansion, the landscape hosts nine SCF priority municipalities. 1 We accelerate solutions that best incentivize farmers 2 We “cluster” investment where it matters most 3 We maximize impact for climate, nature and equity Integrated Farming Integrated livestock, crops and forests, ensuring more sustainable land use. Surplus Legal Reserve Compensation payment to soy farmers who could legally deforest. Expansion over Pastureland Incentives for soy expansion over pasture + intensification of cattle production to free up existing pasture. Sustainable Production + Forest Code Compliance Technical assistance to increase sustainable production and Forest Code Compliance. Green Finance Favorable finance in exchange for zero deforestation commitments Restoration of Degraded Land Native vegetation restoration on degraded pastureland. Indicators w Sustainable land use Avoided deforestation/conversion and regenerative agricultural practices lead to land, soil and water conservation, generate higher yields and preserve native vegetation. Climate Deploying climate-smart solutions enables GHG emissions reduction and capture, contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation. Livelihoods By engaging farmers and local communities, we strive toward incentivizing long-term economic and social returns to the farms and beyond.
