--- Page 1 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 1 K W p c o a d s F p i p i l COMPANY IN BRIEF Based in Finland, Stora Enso produces and markets paper, packaging, biomaterials and wooden construction materials. It has operations in 13 countries and employs 22,000 people. Stora Enso manages 2 million hectares of forests. BACKGROUND A growing world population increases raw material demand and consumption, which intensifies pressure on limited natural resources. Investments to increase reuse and recyclability worldwide are a dire necessity. Beverage cartons, for example, are already recyclable but many countries do not have the right processing infrastructure. INITIATIVE Stora Enso has partnered with Tetra Pak to triple the annual recycling capacity of used beverage cartons in Poland from 25,000 to 75,000 tons. Stora Enso has invested in building a large-scale repulping line, matched by an investment from Tetra Park to build an additional line to recover and separately recycle the polymers and the aluminum. Once operational, the two lines will allow for the recycling of the entire volume of beverage cartons sold in Poland and the ones coming from neighboring countries, including Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. PARTNERSHIPS This initiative is based on a partnership between Stora Enso, its client Tetra Pak, and Plastigram – a company specializing in recycling difficult-to-process plastic waste. IMPERATIVES Increasing recycling capacity for used beverage cartons leads to less virgin fiber required to produce new cartons and less waste ending up in landfills, thereby reducing the need for more landfill capacity and the emission of greenhouse gases and pollutants. Additionally, the initiative creates employment in collection and recycling for local communities. Tripling recycling capacity in Poland Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain

--- Page 2 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 2 BUSINESS CASE The initiative is financially viable and feeds into the mills’ existing recycling infrastructure, which further increases the availability of fiber. The positive outcomes for nature, climate and people strengthen Stora Enso’s social license to operate. ADVOCACY As a member of the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE), Stora Enso has signed onto the ACE 2030 Roadmap targets to increase beverage carton recycling. The target is a 90% collection and 70% recycling rate for beverage cartons by 2030. Stora Enso is contributing to the target through this initiative. NEXT STEPS Both lines are expected to be operational in early 2023. As European Union collection systems continue to evolve, the project holds potential to increase capacity for future excess volumes. Globally, Stora Enso has made a commitment to transparent and circular material flows that help minimize waste and combat climate change. The interim targets for this include achieving 100% recyclable products by 2030. MORE INFORMATION • Stora Enso and Tetra Pak join forces to triple the recycling capacity of beverage cartons in Poland • Stora Enso and Tetra Pak to explore the building of a recycling line for used beverage cartons Contact: tiina.pursula@storaenso.com WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group is the global platform where leading business in the forest products sector build and share solutions to sustainable development.
