--- Page 1 ---
Accelerating action An SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector Purpose Accelerating action: An SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector (Roadmap) is an initiative led by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance, in collaboration with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The Roadmap identifies how IPIECA, as an industry association, and oil and gas companies working within the sector, can work towards a low- emissions future while contributing to a healthier and more prosperous world aligned with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Roadmap builds on the foundations of the 2017 IPIECA-UNDP-IFC Mapping the oil and gas industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: An Atlas (the Atlas), by presenting a series of impact opportunities which focus on where the sector can maximise its contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These impact opportunities involve scaling up good practices in environmental and social performance and building on innovative partnerships, while recognising the importance of the energy transition in realising the world’s ambition to achieve net-zero emissions under the Paris Agreement. The Roadmap aligns the industry around the SDGs, providing a platform to foster collaboration throughout the supply chain to accelerate SDG action, and amplify impact. Summary Impact opportunities The Roadmap outlines eight impact opportunities which highlight where IPIECA and the sector can accelerate action and drive impact on the priority SDGs that it identifies. These impact opportunities are grouped into three themes: climate, nature and people. The Roadmap then identifies corresponding impact pathways to realise these opportunities, comprising a series of specific short, medium and long-term potential actions for both IPIECA and individual companies. Applicability of the suggested actions in the Roadmap to any particular company will be dependent on a range of variables such as company size, business models, operating regions, public policies and other factors specific to the particular company. CLIMATE NATURE PEOPLE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1 POLICY AND PARTNERSHIPS Promote effective policies and partnerships that support innovation and deployment of technologies and activities needed to transform the energy system and build climate resilience 2 INNOVATION Invest in technology and innovation that will enable low-carbon energy products and solutions 3 OPERATIONS Advance emissions reduction initiatives for own operations in support of the aims of the Paris Agreement 6 GOVERNANCE AND TRANSPARENCY Support governments in achieving the SDGs by aligning priorities and accelerating action 7 COMMUNITIES Foster individual and community prosperity around own activities, including advancing sustainable development, livelihoods, good health and well-being 8 THRIVING WORKFORCE Provide productive employment, championing worker health, safety and well-being across the supply chain 4 RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Responsibly manage resources to support a circular economy 5 BIODIVERSITY, LAND AND WATER STEWARDSHIP Conserve, restore and promote biodiversity and ecosystems services

--- Page 2 ---
Accelerating action An SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector Summary IPIECA will monitor emerging trends which may influence priorities outlined in the Roadmap. IPIECA will also share informative case studies on its website to demonstrate and share information as to how IPIECA, its members and others are using the Roadmap and contributing to the SDGs: www.ipieca.org . Implementation IPIECA will ensure a broad roll-out of the Roadmap, which will be used in the following ways: IPIECA launched a new four-year strategy (2021–2024) in December 2020, that includes a vision which combines advancing the oil and gas industry’s environmental and social performance with supporting the sector’s contribution to the energy transition in the context of sustainable development. The strategy was developed in parallel with this Roadmap and recognises the significance of IPIECA’s members’ contribution to help meet the aims of the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda. IPIECA’s annual business planning activities will embed key Roadmap actions and will function as a vehicle for delivery. IPIECA 2021–2024 strategy Providing leadership for the global oil and gas industry on advancing climate action, environmental reponsibility, social performance and mainstreaming sustainability PEOPLE CLIMATE NATURE SUSTAINABILITY Download the Roadmap and Atlas at ipieca.org DOWNLOAD WBCSD will continue to work closely with IPIECA, promoting this roadmap and supporting and challenging the organization and its members as they seek to implement the key actions it identifies across the themes of climate, nature and people. Drawing from experience in developing and implementing roadmaps across a variety of other sectors, WBCSD will also seek to provide guidance to IPIECA and its members on the most effective ways to monitor, measure and report on progress. IPIECA new strategy and annual business planning activities will embed key Roadmap actions and will function as a vehicle for delivery. Supply chain actors and other stakeholders can use the Roadmap to understand possibilities for collaboration to maximise SDG impacts and strengthen dialogue with IPIECA and oil and gas companies. Companies within the oil and gas sector may use the Roadmap as inspiration for SDG-led strategies, activities and collaborations. Multi- stakeholder dialogue is required for the successful implementation of this Roadmap, as many challenges addressed go beyond the capacity of an individual company. Priority SDGs Although the oil and gas sector has the potential to advance all 17 goals either directly or indirectly, this Roadmap identifies 10 SDGs as priority areas where the sector has the most influence or ability to respond to societal needs by driving innovation and impact in its own operations and across the value chain. SDG 17 ‘Partnerships for the Goals’ was identified as a cross-cutting Goal essential to all impact opportunities.
