--- Page 1 ---
TCFD Consortium of Japan After the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015, more and more investors and financial institutions are considering the impacts of climate change on corporate activities. ESG investments, including pension funds and insurance companies, by long- term investors in particular, have expanded. The TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) was established by the Financial Stability Board, in response to a request from G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. The Task Force released the final TCFD Recommendations report in June 2017. Amid growing momentum on disclosures in align with the TCFD recommendations, the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry published the TCFD Guidance in December 2018. Promoting the disclosure is essential to realize a ‘virtuous cycle between the environment and economic growth’, meaning that more investment in companies willing to tackle climate change will bring further growth. We declare the establishment of the TCFD Consortium, a platform where financial institutions and business corporations pursue climate-related financial disclosures recommended by the TCFD. The discussion topics in the consortium will include what and how the corporations disclose, as well as how the financial institutions utilize the disclosed information for investment decisions. We expect that the consortium will serve as a catalyst to promote fruitful discussions on effective disclosures. We will proactively contribute to international discussion and communicate globally, so that these efforts are highly appraised by the global market. Kunio Ito, Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University / Professor, Graduate School of Strategic Management, Chuo University Hiroaki Nakanishi, Chairman, Keidanren Makoto Takashima, Chair of the Japan Bankers Association Takehiko Kakiuchi, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mitsubishi Corporation Shuzo Sumi, Chairman of the Board, Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.

--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
