--- Page 1 ---
Case study 05 Touton – Ghana Partnerships for productivity protection and resilience in cocoa landscapes Agricultural lands occupy almost half of the world’s land surface and a further expansion is projected to feed a global population expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. The social and economic contribution that agriculture makes at both the macro and micro levels is also well documented: agriculture contributes 30% of the GDP in many low-income countries and employs more than 2 billion people globally. Over 75% of people living in poverty depend on agriculture for their livelihoods. Agri-business firms—local, national and international—play major roles in agricultural production and services. As a significant land user, agri-business also has a critical role to play in holistic sustainable land management that protects and maintains essential ecosystem services and builds rural community resilience. GAA and EcoAgriculture Partners are working together to identify and learn from a selection of innovative regenerative and restorative landscape partnerships in which agri-business companies are actively involved. These case studies will support us in our shared ambition to better understand the agri-business perspective—their business rationale for landscape partnerships, institutional models, business and landscape benefits, and how to bring success to scale. We welcome your input and feedback. Case studies are available at globalagribusinessalliance.com Independent authors Business rationale for landscape partnerships Since 2014, Touton has operated in the Juabeso-Bia landscape in the Western region of Ghana, considered to be one of the deforestation hotspot intervention areas (HIA) for the Ghana Cocoa Forest REDD+ Programme (GCFRP). The landscape spans 243,561 ha (140,000 ha of which is forest area) and has a population of just under 150,000 people, approximately 80,000 of whom are cocoa farmers. Touton is a major buyer in this area and has a cocoa processing facility in Tema, Ghana. From the outset, Touton has been championing an inclusive landscape approach, better coordination of natural resource use and improved farmer livelihoods, to enhance both ecosystem health and resilience as well as security of supply. Touton’s role in landscape partnerships Touton has taken a lead in convening conversations between producers, policy-makers (Cocobod, Forestry Commission), civil society (Solidaridad, NCRC, SNV), business (including other private companies: chocolatiers, processors and traders) and other actors in the landscape. By identifying and understanding the shared needs of producers and local leaders, logging industries, policy-making bodies, and regional and district agencies, cooperation between 225 active communities has been successfully facilitated. Cocoa farmers of the Juabeso-Bia Landscape

--- Page 2 ---
Case study 05 Partnerships for productivity protection and resilience in cocoa landscapes Touton – Ghana Contact Global Agri-business Alliance, World Business Council for Sustainable Development Maison de la Paix Chemin Eugaène-Rigot 1202 Genève Switzerland +41 22 839 31 00 info@globalagribusinessalliance.com globalagribusinessalliance.com The Global Agri-business Alliance The only multi-commodity, multi- geography, CEO-led platform for supply-side sector engagement and collective action: growers, processor, traders, providers of finance and inputs. Member companies have come together to strengthen their contribution to building sustainable landscapes and livelihoods. A time-bound initiative, GAA has its sights set firmly on 2030 and on making an additional contribution to the SDGs. The GAA does this by providing a platform for engagement and collaborative action that 1) scales best practice through peer learning 2) contributes to thought-leadership and 3) informs and influences emerging policies. Touton For more details please contact Isabelle Adam, Touton Corporate Relations at i.adam@touton.com “ From the outset, Touton has been championing an inclusive landscape approach, better coordination of natural resource use and improved farmer livelihoods, to enhance both ecosystem health and resilience as well as security of supply. ” Actions and investments for landscape sustainability Touton is adopting a multi-level approach, including on-farm extension support and service delivery for greater productivity, support to drive community social and economic development and support to multi-stakeholder landscape governance structures for prevention and remediation of deforestation caused by cocoa farming and other activities. This approach sets the example of an innovative, comprehensive and bottom-up answer to address the root causes of deforestation caused by cocoa farming. Benefits and successes Thanks to a combined use of field data collection and remote-sensing technology developed by partnering organisations, Touton is working on a system that allows the accurate identification of illegal cocoa farms (in forest areas) and transparently offers long-term remediation solutions (progressive reforestation and alternative livelihoods) while limiting the social and economic prejudice to local communities. Working alongside traditional authorities, communities gained legal literacy and became more involved in defending land tenure. Producers continue to learn how to grow more cocoa on less land and develop additional income generating activities. Understanding the needs and concerns of all landscape actors, from farm to community to landscape levels, was crucial to identifying where the private sector needed to intervene to reduce deforestation. Participatory Three Dimensional Model Maps (P3DM) served as an integral tool to engage farmers and local authorities around common objectives. Lessons learned and future directions Using private sector finance in the cocoa sector is hugely demanded in this landscape and is a novel idea in Ghana, but it also highlights several capacity issues for initiating investment. Opportunities for landscape investments could be achieved through cooperative funding arrangements, risk guarantees, and interdisciplinary landscape management. Touton is now exploring possible blended finance and other financial mechanisms to continue to support long-term resilience. One other key lesson has been that greatest value from multi-stakeholder engagement can be generated over time, with the input of expert knowledge, and through alignment with other intergovernmental processes, commitments and principles. A farmer information session on land tenure being held on-farm
