--- Page 1 ---
TRANSPORT STAKEHOLDER NETWORK AND COMMUNITY CREATION SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Collaboration with local authorities, mobility providers and other private entities such as associations, think tanks or coalitions can help build resilience and sustainability into existing or new mobility systems. It can support better transport options and mitigate the impact of future incidents or setbacks. Choosing the right stakeholders to engage with is essential to work effectively on local mobility. This increases the diversity of problems and solutions considered and integrated into sustainable mobility strategies. Also, it fosters the creation of a local and regional community that can tackle mobility-related issues through balanced negotiations. Building a transport stakeholder network will require first understanding the needs and goals of each considered stakeholder. Knowing how they are interconnected is important for ensuring harmony and effective communication, leading to buy-ins and maintained engagements. Furthermore, good knowledge of the involved stakeholders provides a sustained focus on the network’s objective and relevant mobility issues, a continuous line of communication with stakeholders and activity alignment. Objectives pursued: Improved transport accessibility and flexibility, reduced carbon footprint, reduced congestion and travel time, reduced air pollution and noise, increased availability of sustainable mobility alternatives. Context: This best practice can be adopted in any context and has been successfully implemented by some of our member companies in Europe. Main benefits Business has a major role to play in making mobility more sustainable. However, some decisions on local and regional mobility, like changing public transport routes, infrastructure bottleneck reduction, or changing speed limits, cannot be taken by business. A transport stakeholder network can be a convenient way for businesses to discuss local mobility with key actors, exchange relevant data and influence policy decisions for sustainable mobility. It can furthermore allow for better local integration, and to identify joint solutions, like bus routes that will serve several businesses and the local community. Cost elements: Maintaining a stakeholder network and creating a local community demands the engagement of at least one focal person. Costs associated will depend on how often and where the community meets, as well as the number of actors involved, and which measures are implemented. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Increasing the diversity and number of stakeholders involved in transport networks can make it more difficult to create consensus and act. Communication barriers through unaligned expectations or focus can pose challenges. It is important that businesses distinguish relevant stakeholders, by identifying decision makers and actors with aligning interests. The goals of the network or community should be clear for all joiners. Metrics for impact evaluation Each transport network will have its own goals, and metrics should be set accordingly. In the networks that WBCSD members are active in, some examples of goals are to increase public transport offers, reduce road and rail infrastructure bottlenecks, build infrastructure for active transport modes, propose transport options like shuttles and car-sharing, share best practices and learn from other organizations. Metrics used are therefore: upgraded road and rail infrastructure, increase in public transport ridership, parking lots with charging infrastructure or ride- sharing space, increase in the use of active modes and reduction in drive-alone. Our members and partners engaged in transport stakeholder networks
