--- Page 1 ---
Organization Name: Bolton Group Industry: Fast-moving consumer goods Number of employees: +11.000 Annual revenue: 2,8B€ Website: http://www.boltongroup.net CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS CASE STUDIES Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? CTI has been useful in proceeding towards Bolton Group’s goal of increasing the circularity of our products portfolio. With CTI, we are able to easily identify the key items that improve a product’s circularity, from recyclability of packaging and formulas to the overall recoverability of our products at their end-of-life. Choosing CTI for product development allows us to continuously monitor and improve our performance and will help us reach our overall sustainability goals. Key challenges At Bolton Group, we focused our first assessment on a single product line, more specifically, our Omino Bianco Laundry detergent. All inputs were referred to one specific stock keeping unit (SKU), but easily scalable other references in our laundry products’ range. Once the preliminary assessment had been carried out, a key challenge was to identify what CTI action areas to select as levers and drivers for significant improvement of the circularity of our products. As we move forward, we need to ensure that the investment and resources to improve circularity are used and allocated towards the most effective strategies to reach our overall sustainability targets. Solutions CTI was used to measure the circularity level for some of our Home Care products and exposed a great opportunity to increase the quantity of recycled packaging materials and natural ingredients in our products. The CTI results helped us identify how to increase the percentage of circular inflows and the percentage of circular outflows for all assessed products. Through a process of prioritization and comparison of the circularity levers identified in the CTI assessment report, we gained insights that allowed us to make informed decisions at the design stage of product development, helping us maximize the circularity of our products and their performances. Results The results of the CTI assessment helped us identify the areas we need to focus on to improve the circularity of our formulas and packaging. Based on the insights from the CTI assessment, we could identify the key drivers to improve the circularity of the product we assessed. In particular, the CTI assessment further encouraged us to look at new ways to improve the formula and packaging of our Omino Bianco laundry detergent, which will be launched in its new and more circular version in the next few months. Simultaneously, CTI allowed us to quickly identify which levers would not lead to a significant improvement. Among the opportunities we identified, we found that increasing recycled content in plastics packaging and improving product design for disassembly and disposal can improve recycling rates. We also noticed that to decrease our potential recovery rates and increase our outflow circularity, we would need to engage with external stakeholders to ensure actual recycling rates match the recovery potential of used materials. As the world prepares to transition to a circular economy, we want our growth strategies to be based on inclusivity, resilience and circularity, striking the right balance with the planet’s limited resources. Ylenia Tommasato, Sustainable Development Director of Bolton Group
