--- Page 1 ---
WBCSD membership conditions Membership of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is by invitation of the CEO of WBCSD and approved by the Executive Committee. We welcome expressions of interest in membership from companies with a commitment to sustainable development. Members should be committed to the mission of WBCSD: ‘WBCSD is a CEO-led organization of forward- thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. Together with its members, the Council applies its respected thought leadership and effective advocacy to generate constructive ‘ business solutions for a sustainable world ’ and to the objectives of WBCSD which are to: • be a business thought leader and advocate for sustainable development; • participate in policy development to create the right framework conditions for business to make an effective contribution towards sustainable development; • develop and promote the business case for sustainable development; • develop scalable business solutions, and promote their implementation, for sustainable development; • demonstrate and measure the business contribution to sustainable development and share leading-edge practices among members; • contribute to a sustainable future for all nations. Members of WBCSD agree to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and further WBCSD’s Vision 2050.

--- Page 2 ---
Be legally and operationally independent; Be represented on the Council of WBCSD by the Chief Executive Officer or executive-level or board of directors’ representative, preferably with overall responsibility for sustainable development’s integration with business strategy and its execution; Nominate a Liaison Delegate, to manage the relationship with WBCSD and ensure optimum benefit for, and engagement of, the member company; Member companies agree to have their sustainability report reviewed and benchmarked by WBCSD via a confidential process using transparent and objective criteria; Actively support the objectives and work plan of WBCSD as approved by the Council. This includes, but is not limited to, engaging and helping create scalable action around at least one of WBCSD’s Programs and their Projects; be willing to be actively involved by making in-house competence and appropriate personnel resources available; Strive for consistent, constructive advocacy and be transparent about the position and actions the company is taking on sustainable development, either directly or through its trade associations; Pay the annual membership contribution for the category approved by the Council, and applicable project fees; payments need to be completed within the terms. A late payment surcharge will be applied to m ember c ompanies in default. The company membership has no expiration without written notice of withdrawal; Notice of withdrawal of membership must be provided to the CEO of WBCSD in written form signed by the Council Member, from 1 January to 30 September, with membership resignation taking effect as of the first day of the following year. Notices received after 30 September (till 31 December) will result in the company’s withdrawal from WBCSD to take effect on the first day of the year after the following one. Members are required to cover their membership fees until their membership ends in accordance with these conditions. Fulfill the five membership criteria that follow from January 2023. Adherence will be monitored through a review of standard, external communication of the company. In December 2022, all members will be asked to ‘adhere or explain’ and seek extension or exemption with Executive Committee (ExCo) of WBCSD. New members will have 24 months to adhere from joining WBCSD. The ExCo will review compliance to the membership criteria. In cases of member non-adherence, timely actions will be recommended, commensurate with the situation. In December 2021, all members are advised to report on progress for preparation of compliance with the membership criteria and seek support if needed. 1. Set an ambition to reach Net Zero GHG emissions no later than 2050 and have a science-informed plan to achieve it, that can include Natural Climate Solutions and other carbon removal solutions. GHG emissions include Scope 1, 2 and most relevant and influenceable elements of Scope 3. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 2. Set ambitious, science-informed, short and mid-term environmental goals that contribute to nature / biodiversity recovery by 2050. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 3. Declare support for the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by having in place a policy to respect human rights and a human rights due diligence process. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 4. Declare support for inclusion, equality, diversity and the elimination of any form of discrimination. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 5. Operate at the highest level of transparency: • Disclose material climate and sustainability related financial information according to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) or other reputable reporting frameworks; • Align Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) processes and disclosure with with environmental, social and governance (ESG)-related risks; • Include material ESG information in financial or other relevant disclosures, using standard metrics where possible. WBCSD MEMBER COMPANIES ARE REQUIRED TO:
