--- Page 1 ---
T he banking industry is in the midst of a structural transformation, driven by new technologies and the advent of highly personalized digital experiences offered by new financial players. In this context, it is crucial to ensure that the workforce fits the needs of Santander’s long-term strategy. New entrants in the financial system, such as tech companies and start- ups, are not only disrupting the banking business, they are also setting the ‘gold standard’ for recruiting and nurturing digital talent. In other words, digitalization is creating a new breed of talent and companies need to find new ways to attract and retain them. Santander aims to become an employer of choice for its purpose, culture and the responsible way it achieves results. A clear strategic roadmap to manage talent carefully through strategic workforce planning supports this effort, while the bank embarks on a digital and cultural transformation. Strategic workforce planning is a dynamic tool that assists the Human Resource department, and the organisation more broadly, in ensuring the workforce suits the current and future needs of the company and ensures that required capabilities are in place to deliver its strategy. Strategic workforce planning has already been carried out across different units of Santander, covering approximately 30% of the Group’s total workforce, with the remaining units expected to be covered during the course of 2019. The key challenges identified after the first wave of strategic workforce planning were the digital workforce gap - mainly for data and tech specialist profiles - and the upskilling and reskilling of current employees, enabling them to adapt to the new digital business environment. As a result of this exercise, a detailed HR plan has been defined at local level in each of the units where the exercise was carried out, as well as at global level, launching cross- cutting initiatives. In addition to these challenges which are currently being addressed by strategic HR initiatives, there is another aspect to keep in mind going forward: the integration of new profiles with the existing workforce – often characterised by younger, more tech-savvy employees on the one side, and veteran, more traditional banking experts on the other. It is critical to achieve a healthy coexistence of these two profiles, allowing both to thrive and ensure their active participation in the Bank’s evolution. The five main elements of the strategic workforce planning approach Strategic workforce planning Transforming the Workforce
