--- Page 1 ---
Business principles for people-centered technology transformation With society and technology changing faster than ever before, WBCSD is working towards a vision of the Future of Work where people thrive - personally, professionally, and as active members of their communities. A future with inclusive workforces that are secure, motivated, skilled and prepared for any challenge that comes next. Where people’s lives are enriched by advancing technology. And where society can prosper from equal access to new opportunities. The challenge Workers are at the frontline of technology transformation Companies make technology- related decisions every day that impact workers’ rights, wellbeing and futures In the face of rapid tech evolution, impacts on the workforce can be underestimated or overlooked Putting people at the heart of the Future of Work Implement policies to ensure respect for workers’ human rights related to new technology. Communicate transparently on the impacts of new technology on the workforce and how companies are preparing for transitions. Prepare the workforce by equipping workers with new skills and providing access to learning, training and support. Conduct effective due diligence to identify current and potential human rights impacts of new technology. Consult openly with the workforce and relevant stakeholders. Consult openly by ensuring underrepresented groups are fully engaged and benefit equally from new opportunities. Be accountable and provide channels for effective remediation. Involve the workforce when designing, adopting and working with new technologies. Drive equality by fairly sharing the benefits of technology-driven improvements with all workers. workers’ human rights when developing and implementing new technology workers in technology transformation workers to benefit from new technology Respect Engage Empower Companies & partners driving WBCSD’s Future of Work project Find out more: https://futureofwork.wbcsd.org/ Adopting these Principles will help companies ensure the ongoing trust, preparedness and resilience of their own workforce, attract and retain the best talent, stay ahead of the curve on expectations and regulations, and contribute to a thriving workforce, company, labor market and society. WBCSD’s Principles aim to ensure technology transformation benefits the workforce, now and in the future.
