--- Page 1 ---
Enabling social mobility Britain remains one of the least socially mobile nations in the OECD with large attainment gaps persisting between individuals from low socio - economic background and their peers, and access to well - paying and secure work remaining a structural issue. KPMG has been taking a leading role in promoting social mobility – from implementing and advocating a real Living Wage, to being the driving force behind Access Accountancy , a sector - wide initiative to improve access to the profession. In 2016, it was the first UK business to publish comprehensive data on the socio - economic background of its workforce. It is KPMG’s belief, that targeting, supporting and recruiting employees from all social backgrounds and across all strands of diversity provides an array of viewpoints on client matters, foresight in its decisions and challenge around their actions. Which is why - to complement KPMG’s long - standing graduate scheme - in 2015 they introduced KPMG360 ° : a rotational apprenticeship program for school and college leavers. In 2017 19% of apprentices in the program came from low socio - economic backgrounds, and almost all 2016 participants were retained by the company. The second element in KPMG’s strategy to attract and retain talent from different social and educational backgrounds, are partnerships: KPMG is a “cornerstone employer” in two UK Department for Education Opportunity Areas, where they have pledged to build the employability skills of young people and hope to foster long - term relationships for the mutual benefit of these communities and the company. Additionally KPMG partners with primary and secondary schools and colleges in deprived areas of the UK. Last but not least , the One+1 program - in cooperation with the Social Mobility Foundation - matches students who lack professional connections and who live in harder to reach areas, with KPMG staff willing to host and mentor these students. Acknowledging these efforts, KPMG has been recognized as the leading employer in the 2018 UK Social Mobility Employer Index, a national benchmark that measures how good organizations are at being open to all talent, regardless of background. And in 2017 KPMG won the Queen’s Awards for Enterprise: Promoting Opportunity (through Social Mobility). Emerging Innovations
