--- Page 1 ---
Case study Inclusive Sustainable Urban Mobility Planning Feira de Santana, Brazil. After using WBCSD’s SiMPlify methodology for sustainable urban mobility planning, the city of Feira de Santana committed BRL 100 million to make the changes that are needed to deliver safer, cleaner, more efficient and accessible mobility. Project details Context Project overview Partners: Pirelli, Prefecture of Feira de Santana, WBCSD Location: Feira de Santana, Brazil Feira de Santana is a fast-growing city of 600,000 in Brazil’s northern region of Bahia. Its proximity to Salvador makes it a crucial transport node for goods and people all over Brazil. WBCSD’s member Pirelli has a world class production plant in the city that exports all over the continent. As a significant employer in Feira, Pirelli has a keen interest in supporting the city to deliver safer, cleaner, more efficient and accessible mobility to its citizens. To this end, WBCSD and Pirelli have worked with the Prefecture of Feira to develop a Sustainable Urban Mobility plan using WBCSD’s SiMPlify methodology. Feira’s mobility challenges Like many cities around the world, Feira de Santana is highly dependent on private vehicles, the preferred mode of transport. Heavy urban traffic congestion and traffic accidents happen frequently. People also ignore parking rules – which prevents parking optimization and interferes with the capacity to deliver efficient mobility strategies. Public transport is a challenge and is difficult for disabled people to access. There are no incentives for non-motorized transport such as bikes or walking, and this kind of transport is mostly unsafe, owing to the lack of dedicated spaces for active mobility. Thanks to the launch of an innovative Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan, these issues will be transformed into opportunities that can help the city and its citizens. SiMPlify at work Alongside the municipality’s existing mobility plans, SiMPlify helped Feira develop an inclusive mobility vision, by enabling stakeholder engagement and citizen participation. There are 19 indicators in the SiMPlify methodology, and using them helps develop a process to engage all stakeholders in effective city management and planning. Using the data-based indicators required all city departments to collaborate, and the survey-based indicators were obtained by running the first-ever online city survey. Stakeholders identified a priority for the indicators, in order to show how they wished to improve the sustainability of the city’s mobility systems. High priority items included the lack of security for parking, as well as public transport and other forms of non-motorized transport. Access 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 Accessibility for impaired Active mobility Comfort and pleasure Congestion Economic Opportunity Air pollution GHG Functional diversity Fatalities Intermodal integration Noise hindrance Public area Space usage Security Travel time

--- Page 2 ---
SiMPlify’s strength lies in the 300 mobility solutions it has collected from cities around the world , based on best practice. These solutions are matched to a city’s indicators and give clear ideas for implementing solutions that address the identified gaps. After reviewing all applicable solutions, stakeholders included the most relevant ones in their Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan: • Bus Rapid Transit system, BRT (first phase) • Installation of cameras on public transport • On-board electronic ticketing • Bike-sharing system, bicycle parking spaces • Reduced speed zones in the proximity of BRT lines • Passenger-friendly bus and tram stops • Increase of sidewalks, number of traffic lights and fixed signalization • Roadside ticket vending machine • Improve women’s sense of security on public transport • Bus Rapid Transit system, BRT (second phase) • 50 km of cycleways in a structured system of primary, secondary and complementary network • Operational Control Center for mobility management • Tree planting in sidewalks and streets • Proximity services at major passenger transport hubs Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan solutions Lessons learned 2019 2020 >2024 2021 - 2024 SHORT-TERM MEDIUM-TERM LONG-TERM Leveraging the learnings from the SiMPlify analysis and the involvement of all stakeholders, the city of Feira de Santana is now deploying BRL 100 million (USD $26 million) to implement its Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan. Applying a neutral, data-based methodology that ensures inclusivity and engagement of all stakeholders brought confidence in the city’s mobility plan and facilitated decision- making. Factors that ensured a successful outcome for this project include: • Intersectoral partnership: a city task force of public, private, civil society partners followed all phases of the project, this ensured higher accountability of all stakeholders; • Engagement of a management and technical team thanks to an integrated process independent of hierarchy helped to plan for feasible solutions that address local needs; • Strong institutional interest in understanding citizens’ challenges and needs; • Consistent, constructive engagement with the public thanks to the promotion of an extensive campaign across all media. Irene Martinetti Manager, Sustainable Mobility martinetti@wbcsd.org https://www.wbcsd.org/SiMPlify Get in touch Find out more
