--- Page 1 ---
Members of the Soft Commodities Forum deliver progress on soy supply chain traceability to track deforestation and conversion risks in the Cerrado The six SCF members advance on transparency and traceability efforts for Cerrado-sourced soy, with the latest accomplishments being: • A new standardized reporting architecture for soy sourced by joint ventures; • A methodology to report on verified deforestation- and conversion-free soy; • An improved approach to support indirect suppliers in the adoption of monitoring systems; • A shared engagement and investment strategy to eliminate soy-driven deforestation and conversion in priority landscapes. Geneva, Switzerland, 16 December 2021: In their December 2021 progress report , published today, members of WBCSD’s Soft Commodities Forum (SCF) reaffirm their commitments to increase the transparency and traceability of their Cerrado-sourced soy supply chains, to track sourcing where there are the highest risks of deforestation and conversion. The SCF’s six current members are ADM, Bunge, Cargill, COFCO International, Louis Dreyfus Company and Viterra. The main accomplishments to highlight in this report are the following: • A new standardized reporting architecture for soy sourced by joint ventures; • A methodology to report on verified deforestation- and conversion-free soy; • An improved approach to support indirect suppliers in the adoption of monitoring systems; • A shared engagement and investment strategy to eliminate soy-driven deforestation and conversion in priority landscapes. Tackling deforestation and conversion risks begins with a transparent and credible picture of where soy comes from. By tracing soy all the way down to the farm, and therefore being able to identify whether it is linked to deforestation, conversion, or other issues at farm level, SCF members can focus their efforts where they matter most, and measure progress towards the elimination of soy- driven conversion and deforestation in the Cerrado. Building upon the SCF’s expanded scope announced in June 2021, members developed a common methodology to report soy verified to be deforestation- and conversion-free in the SCF’s 61 focus municipalities, for which progress will be reported as of 2022, providing further accountability to soy value chain stakeholders. On supply chain traceability, the vast majority of SCF members are now able to track 100% of their soy volumes back to the farms from which they source directly. All companies have also made progress on improving transparency of their indirect sources through the mapping of their first point of aggregation. The next step for 2022 will be building a collaborative relationship with these intermediaries, steering the implementation of traceability systems to monitor their own suppliers. Moreover, with the newly established methodology to report on soy sourced by joint venture partners, SCF members are paving the way to provide accountability for the entire soy supply chain. - ENDS -

--- Page 2 ---
About the Soft Commodities Forum Companies that buy, sell and process soft commodities play a unique role in connecting soy supplies with customers around the world. They are like an optical fiber that connects consumers, producers and the markets, and therefore have a unique opportunity to help drive progress on the elimination of soy-driven deforestation and conversion. The complexity of soy supply chains means that no single business can tackle deforestation and conversion alone. Collaboration between them helps to move the entire sector forward together, establishing and applying standards and solutions. In 2018, WBCSD established the Soft Commodities Forum (SCF) to enable this collaboration, making it the only forum in which member companies have agreed to find collective solutions to common sustainability challenges, bridging global goals with local real ities. The SCF’s six current members – ADM, Bunge, Cargill, COFCO International, Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC), and Viterra – have all pledged to make their soy supply chains free from deforestation and native vegetation conversion (NVC), balancing economic, social and environmental priorities. The SCF thus bridges global goals with local realities. The SCF is hosted by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) through a secretariat, which facilitates dialogue and the pooling of resources and information. About WBCSD WBCSD is the premier global, CEO- led community of over 200 of the world’s leading sustainable businesses working collectively to accelerate the system transformations needed for a net zero, nature positive, and more equitable future. We do this by engaging executives and sustainability leaders from business and elsewhere to share practical insights on the obstacles and opportunities we currently face in tackling the integrated climate, nature and inequality sustainability challenge; by co- developing “how - to” CEO -guides from these insights; by providing science-based target guidance including standards and protocols; and by developing tools and platforms to help leading businesses in sustainability drive integrated actions to tackle climate, nature and inequality challenges across sectors and geographical regions. Our member companies come from all business sectors and all major economies, representing a combined revenue of more than USD $8.5 trillion and 19 million employees. Our global network of almost 70 national business councils gives our members unparalleled reach across the globe. Since 1995, WBCSD has been uniquely positioned to work with member companies along and across value chains to de liver impactful business solutions to the most challenging sustainability issues. Together, we are the leading voice of business for sustainability, united by our vision of creating a world in which 9+ billion people are living well, within planetary boundaries, by mid-century. www.wbcsd.org Follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn Note to editors – not for publication │ media@wbcsd.org To be added to the WBCSD press distribution list, please e-mail WBCSD here .
