--- Page 1 ---
Business Biodiversity Conservation Cases Summary 2022 China Chamber of International Commerce Partnered with

--- Page 2 ---
Syngenta Group China launches and implements green growth programs in stages, incorporates climate change and biodiversity loss into sustainable agricultural development, and carries out a series of key projects and activities. Alibaba, based on its world’s leading digital platform, enables biodiversity and ecological protection with digital technologies, and discovers and applies innovative solutions. Mengniu implements biodiversity conservation in three pathways, producing direct positive impact through pathway 1 “reducing threats to biodiversity”, and pathway 2 “sustainable utilization of biodiversity resources”. Canadian Solar Inc. is dedicated to replacing fossil energy with solar power with the minimum impact on the environment, so as to promote the green operation of photovoltaic industry and apply photovoltaic products in conserved areas. Elion carries out long-term desert control in Kubuqi, and explores a three-dimensional circular ecological system while restoring ecology and improving biodiversity, so as to build a golden brand for the company. ZhongAn Insurance is the first online insurance company in China. Through the innovative integration of biodiversity conservation and internet insurance business, ZhongAn carries out a series of public service activities. Landsea Group introduces the green idea into the whole life-circle management in architecture and real estate programs, adhering to green purchase, green construction, green decoration and green working. Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group actively advances prefabricated buildings that are energy saving and environmental-friendly, and works to reduce environmental risks and mitigate pressure on nature in its operations. Based on the “resource plus data” method, M Grass scientifically realizes ecological restoration and biodiversity conservation through the synergy of “germplasm resources” and “big data platforms”. Beijing Forestry University Science works on ecological protection and restoration and environmental construction in various key areas, and builds a number of exceptional cases including Cuihu National Wetland Park. Sino-Eco operates in four major aspects, namely, ecological monitoring, ecological equipment supply, endangered and endemic species protection as well as ecological restoration, in order to directly facilitate biodiversity conservation. Organic and Beyond is committed to biodiversity conservation in farms, and builds many well-functional organic farms around the world with strict standards for sustainable development. G.F.Tea is a small to medium-sized tea production enterprise, which has the biggest organic tea garden in China certified by Rainforest Alliance in Cangyuan Wa Autonomous county, Lincang City, Yunnan Province, realizing the harmonious coexistence of nearly a thousand of wildlife and tea garden. Crony is an innovative small to medium-sized company which provides solutions to biological disposals. It develops featured products with nature-based solutions, and yields biological benefits in operations and application. bp takes measures in large operation sites to enact biodiversity plans that meet local conditions. Tangguh Expansion Project in Indonesia is a typical case. Coca Cola reduces environmental footprints in production, while taking conservation actions for two types of raw materials (water and agricultural products) by managing water resources and promoting sustainable agriculture. SINOPEC integrates biodiversity conservation into facility construction, gaining ecological benefits through building bird habitat and turning sewage disposal factories into wetland parks. The State Grid takes actions in different phases of operation, developing biodiversity conservation programs adapted to local conditions through the whole-process management. China Three Gorges Corporation applies biodiversity conservation actions to all business areas, aiming to ensure that its protection covers from the Three Gorges area to the Yangtze River area, from the inland to the sea, and from China to the world. HSBC facilitates conservation through leveraging finance. It introduces biodiversity conservation into the environmental risk management of portfolio, so as to mainstream natural assets and promote the synergy of climate actions and biodiversity conservation. Microsoft developed and launched AI for Earth using its technology advantages for environmental monitoring, and supported partners to use AI tools for conservation. SUEZ is dedicated to providing professional environmental services. It applies biodiversity protection to all kinds of different business scopes and operation sites. The Zone Libellule (meaning Dragonfly Zone) is a nature-based solution developed by SUEZ and has been promoted and applied. Unilever, one of the world’s biggest agricultural raw material users, takes actions to strictly control supply chain taking consideration on agricultural workers and direct suppliers, in order to reduce the impact on nature. As biodiversity conservation becomes the core of sustainable development, businesses have taken progressive actions. World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), together with several Chinese partners, compiled these Cases. Through demonstrating businesses’ practices, the Cases aims to guide more Chinese businesses to participate in biodiversity conservation, as well as provide references for pioneers. The cases are from different businesses of different sectors, covering finance, food, energy, architecture, environment protection, forestry, etc. The cases of the companies may not be perfect in all aspects, but each of them has its unique features based on their sectors and actual situations. Every case is consist of two parts, namely Spotlights Actions, and Support and Engagement. Spotlights Actions showcases main achievements made by businesses in biodiversity conservation based on their major business. Safeguard and Improvement is a relatively broad part, covering the institutional and technical support for highlight actions, as well as the cooperation and promotion to scale up the influence of spotlight actions, which aims to display the major measures for supporting sportlights actions, and identify “what” and “how” to achieve the objective.
