--- Page 1 ---
DIGITAL CLIMATE ADVISORY SERVICES Digital climate advisory services (DCAS) are climate information tools, like mobile phone apps or online platforms, that help individuals adapt to climate variability and change. They can play a critical role in tackling the climate impacts that threaten today’s and tomorrow’s agri-food systems, but their reach and application is still fragmented. There are over 300 million small-scale agricultural producers that do not have access to digital climate advisory services ( Steiner et al. 2020 ) . Investment in DCAS will need to greatly increase to provide the services these producers need for enhancing climate resilience – yet returns could be as high as 1:10. TARGETING INVESTMENT FOR MAXIMUM IMPACT To reduce inefficiencies and increase uptake, DCAS will need to be flexible yet tailored to local production, business and infrastructure contexts. Vulnerability and digital readiness To maximize return on investment and scalable results, different types of investments will be needed depending on vulnerability and digital readiness. Private sector, public and donor investment Private sector investment will play a critical role in environments with higher digital readiness, while public and donor investment in enabling infrastructure will be needed in low readiness/high vulnerability context. Throughout 2020, the Global Commission on Adaptation and its partners have worked to assess the investment needed to scale up digital climate advisory services (DCAS) to build the resilience of over 300 million small-scale agricultural producers globally, and the principles that should govern that investment to ensure it is equitable, scalable and impactful. The Investment Blueprint resulting from this work will be published in Spring 2021. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ROAD CLIMATE ADVISORY SERVICES FOR 300 MILLION SMALL-SCALE PRODUCERS Over 300m smallholders Investment returns as high as 1:10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF GOOD PRACTICE For DCAS to meet the challenge of strengthening food security and building climate change resilience, investment will need to be driven by principles of good practice to promote long-term, sustainable, equitable outcomes: Data Quality Equity Co-creation Accountability Sustainability Scalability PARTNERSHIPS AND BUSINESS MODELS From 2009 to 2019, the number of digital advisory services grew from around 25 to almost 300 active services ( GSMA, 2020 ) . Different partnership and business models of DCAS are being applied in different contexts. They can be summarized in five categories: Focused Advisories only, delivered directly to the producer or through a cooperative or farmer group. Bundled Integrated or grouped services delivered to the customer (e.g. finance/market access). Business-to-intermediary Solutions that are sold to agribusinesses, insurers or banks who pay for their customers to access the service. Specialized intermediary services Services that help DCAS operate effectively, for example, as platform and data managers. Embedded within commercial operations Solutions applied within commercial operations and supply chains of agribusinesses.
