--- Page 1 ---
A program for city-business collaboration By 2050, around 70% of the global population will be living in cities. City life will drive 80% of total global energy, resource demand and 70% of GHG emissions. A well-designed city, can open the pathway to WBCSD’s vision of creating a world in which more than nine billion people live well and within the limits of the planet, offering opportunities for a good quality lifestyle at a lower footprint. Globally, sustainability issues are well understood, however at the local level, every city has its own challenges and priorities . Cities need to involve their citizens and stakeholders in defining their challenges and ambitions. The role of the private sector is critical to make cities more sustainable. Business has the expertise, the strategic interest and the financial capacity to provide sustainable solutions. These solutions have to contribute to a city’s overall sustainability ambition. Business needs to work with cities and other stakeholders to understand and define a city’s sustainability ambition. Implementing the Sustainable Development Goals in cities alone could open up a USD 3.7tn market for sustainable solutions Learn and share about the latest developments in cities ● Stay up to date on latest city-sustainability trends relevant to business ● Learn about city initiatives and WBCSD projects in cities ● Share solutions and results from your work with other companies and cities Through WBCSD newsletters, webinars, workshops and conferences Work with cities to scale up sustainable solutions ● Engage city leadership through WBCSD projects WBCSD enables cities to become more ambitious in their sustainability goals, to understand barriers and solutions for implementation and to involve the private sector strategically in reaching the goals. In addition, it helps companies understand cities' needs and priorities and also grow the market for more sustainable solutions. Existing projects: ● Buildings: EEB Amplify ● Mobility: Sustainable Mobility 3.0 ● Cities: Zero Emissions Cities ● Potential areas (water, circular economy, food, adaptation/resilience) Advocate for sustainable business solutions & new ways of working ● Participate in city-business dialogues ● Formulate policy asks ● Provide recommendations to cities (on business solutions, enabling framework, procurement process) Dialogues organized with ICLEI, C40, We Mean Business, Covenant of Mayors, etc. ● WBCSD Council Meeting Mexico City (17 Oct) ● CityLab Paris (22 Oct) – with C40 ● COP23 Low Emissions Solutions Conference Bonn (13 Nov) – with ICLEI, SDSN Sustainable Cities program City Trends City Dialogue City Solutions WBCSD provides a platform for companies to engage with cities in a strategic way, through dialogue, best practice sharing and action Join the Sustainable Cities program Benefits for members Companies can leverage WBCSD as a neutral platform to have a strategic dialogue with cities and city networks, identify new business models, share their experiences and solutions and participate in city projects in locations of strategic interest. Through WBCSD, companies can:  Learn about city priorities and future trends  Reduce transaction costs when approaching cities  Position sustainable solutions under a shared vision with the most relevant players  Grow innovation through new business models and public-private partnerships  Drive scale through WBCSD and partners Contact Roland Hunziker Director, Sustainable Buildings & Cities Hunziker@wbcsd.org
