--- Page 1 ---
VISION URGENCY VISION 2050 ENERGY A sustainable energy system providing reliable and affordable net-zero carbon energy for all. TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY Safe, accessible, clean and efficient transportation of people and goods. FOOD A regenerative and equitable food system producing healthy, safe and nutritious food for all. LIVING SPACES Healthy and inclusive living spaces, thriving in harmony with nature. ❱ Zero carbon electricity generation technologies are further innovated and adopted globally at speed ❱ Net-zero carbon energy becomes affordable, reliable, and resilient ❱ Heavy industries and heavy-duty transport decarbonize ❱ Unavoidable emissions are tackled through natural and industrial carbon removal and storage solutions ❱ Electrification, circularity, and digitization make all sectors highly energy efficient ❱ Shifts in behavior and demand accelerate the transition to net-zero carbon energy ❱ The energy transition leaves no one behind ❱ Battery, low-carbon fuel, and efficiency innovations decarbonize transportation ❱ Infrastructure development and planning pave the way for sustainable, resilient, and inclusive mobility ❱ Mobility solutions diversify, increasing safety, convenience and efficiency, and shifting mobility habits ❱ Circular opportunities are unlocked and scaled across the transportation and mobility sector ❱ Selective deployment of autonomous vehicles enhances efficiency, safety and access ❱ Data-sharing improves urban mobility systems ❱ Multi-stakeholder efforts ensure the transition to a sustainable mobility system leaves no one behind HEALTH & WELLBEING The highest attainable standard of health and wellbeing for everyone. ❱ Businesses evolve products and services to promote healthy lifestyles ❱ Health literacy is promoted globally and trust in science is restored ❱ Investment builds capacity to prevent the emergence and spread of communicable diseases ❱ Policy, investment, and innovation ensure universal access to healthcare ❱ Healthcare systems responsibly embrace new technologies ❱ Businesses safeguard health and wellbeing in their operations and supply chains ❱ The climate and nature crises are recognized as health crises ❱ Building and infrastructure design shifts to focus on users’ health ❱ Infrastructure and buildings increasingly integrate and respect biodiversity ❱ Cities and buildings pave the way towards net zero carbon ❱ The emergence of resilient urban and rural communities ❱ A shift towards ‘circular cities’ that minimize consumption and waste ❱ Cities are made to work for all ❱ Respect for human rights is embedded across the construction and materials sectors globally ❱ Agriculture becomes more productive, regenerative, and resilient ❱ The food system supports a healthy, productive, and well-governed ocean ❱ Diets become healthy and sustainable ❱ The world moves towards a circular food system with zero loss and waste ❱ Equitable distribution of value throughout the food value chain ❱ End-to-end transparency is built from farm to fork ❱ The true value and cost of food is acknowledged and accounted for NINE TRANSFORMATION PATHWAYS To help business focus its efforts, VISION 2050: TIME TO TRANSFORM identifies NINE TRANSFORMATION PATHWAYS including critical transitions, across the key areas of business activity that are essential to society VISION 2050 IS STILL WITHIN REACH, BUT WE HAVE TO TRANSFORM NOW . FUTURE BUSINESS SUCCESS DEPENDS ON IT. WBCSD’S VISION FOR 2050 IS A WORLD IN WHICH 9+ BILLION PEOPLE LIVE WELL, WITHIN PLANETARY BOUNDARIES More than 9 billion people will be able to live well, within planetary boundaries, by 2050 – but we must act now . We are facing unprecedented challenges: a climate emergency , nature in a state of crisis , and mounting inequality and social unrest . Key tipping points are being reached. Business, government, and civil society must change the systems that have created the challenges we now face – and change them so profoundly that we can legitimately call it transformation. The next decade represents a final window of opportunity to correct our course. TIME TO TRANSFORM REINVENTION Business must push for a reinvention of capitalism to ensure that the power of private enterprise and competitive markets can be directed to supporting long-term societal, environmental and business prosperity. TRANSFORMATION REQUIRES THREE RADICAL MINDSET SHIFTS These mindsets will be the difference between incremental change and the accelerated transformation necessary to achieve our Vision by 2050 RESILIENCE Business needs to better understand and incorporate resilience into its strategic planning, enhancing its capacity to anticipate, embrace and adapt to changes and disruptions in an increasingly volatile world. REGENERATION Business has to move beyond a “doing no harm” mindset. It’s time to unlock the potential of living systems – social and ecological – that business depends on, and build their capacity to regenerate, thrive and evolve. MINDSETS ENABLERS REALIZING VISION 2050 Business must not just react to, but also shape, the technologies, investment opportunities, individual behaviours and demand, and regulatory and policy environments that will support progress along Vision 2050’s transformation pathways. INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGY Innovation processes that set goals around social and environmental impact as well as anticipate and avoid negative unintended consequences will be good for society, and will lead to more resilient business models. FINANCE & INVESTMENT Finding ways for companies to direct investment towards socially, environmentally and financially sustainable outcomes will be essential to achieving Vision 2050. INDIVIDUALS & CONSUMPTION Business has a role to play in enabling individuals to be agents of positive change. Giving people the options and incentives they need to make more sustainable choices is key to accelerating transformation. POLICY & REGULATION Regulation creates the stable, predictable and fair conditions that companies depend on to invest, compete and thrive. Business must better support the design of policies that incentivize sustainable transformation. IF WE DO THIS SUCCESSFULLY, WE CAN REALIZE OUR VISION OF 9+ BILLION PEOPLE... CLIMATE EMERGENCY Time is running out to address the climate emergency. Increasingly frequent and devastating extreme weather events are already impacting communities today. We have eight years left to halve emissions for global warming to be kept to a maximum of 1.5°C, beyond which even half a degree will significantly worsen the risks of drought, floods, extreme heat and poverty for hundreds of millions of people. NATURE IN CRISIS Ongoing biodiversity loss will have grave consequences for our livelihoods, economies, health and security. Over half the world’s total GDP – USD 44 trillion – is moderately or highly dependent on nature and its services, and exposed to risks from nature loss. Global wildlife populations shrank by 68% between 1970 and 2016, and we are currently on course to lose nearly one million species to extinction by 2050. MOUNTING INEQUALITY In 2020, inequality rose in every country. Many people are losing faith in our systems’ ability to deliver a prosperous future for them and their children. Trust in institutions is eroding and both business and democracy itself face a significant threat to their license to operate. COVID-19 has brought inequality further into the spotlight, feeding on it, fueling it, and making it impossible to ignore. BUSINESS CANNOT MAKE TRANSFORMATION HAPPEN ON ITS OWN – IT MUST ALSO STEER, SUPPORT AND CONTRIBUTE TO CHANGE THROUGH ITS INFLUENCE ON, AND INTERACTIONS WITH, ENABLERS OF TRANSFORMATION WITHIN PLANETARY BOUNDARIES Global warming is stabilized at no more than +1.5°C, and natural systems are protected, restored and used sustainably. Societies have developed sufficient adaptive capacity to build and maintain resilience in a healthy and regenerative Earth system. LIVING WELL Everyone’s dignity and rights are respected, basic needs are met, and equal opportunities are available for all. ❱ Circular business models become the norm, creating economic, environmental, and social opportunities ❱ A circular bioeconomy plays an increasingly central role in global economic activity ❱ Goods and services meet the needs of communities around the world while leaving no one behind ❱ Material collection and recovery improves exponentially ❱ The flow of waste into the environment is ended and nature restored ❱ People embrace consumption that is circular, regenerative, and socially responsible ❱ Technological advances are deployed responsibly and drive improved efficiency and transparency across the value chain PRODUCTS & MATERIALS Resource use is optimized to meet society’s needs while allowing the systems that provide resources to regenerate. FINANCIAL PRODUCTS & SERVICES All financial capital and financial products and services are mobilized to support sustainable development. ❱ Markets and financial institutions embrace a broader concept of value ❱ Culture and behavior shift ❱ Capital is mobilized in support of sustainable development ❱ Robust market infrastructure for financial products in support of sustainable development emerges ❱ Companies enhance the strategic integration and reporting of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) to facilitate sustainable capital allocation by financial institutions ❱ People’s values are restored to the heart of the financial system ❱ Financial services support inclusion and equitable access at scale CONNECTIVITY Responsible connectivity brings people together, enhances transparency and efficiency, and drives access to opportunity. ❱ Universal access to broadband and digital services leaves no one behind ❱ Digital platforms enrich social interaction and civic engagement ❱ Connectivity enables collaboration, innovation, and the emergence of new business models and ways of working ❱ Connected devices lead to improved performance and efficiency ❱ The health of natural and social systems is continuously tracked ❱ Government and business strengthen digital security, responsibility, and trust ❱ The impacts of digital growth are mitigated through responsible models of production and consumption WATER & SANITATION Thriving aquatic ecosystems that support food, energy and public health for all. ❱ Infrastructure and technology to ensure universal access to water are deployed faster ❱ The true value of water is recognized by all ❱ Integrated water resource management approaches are widely implemented ❱ Target-setting, measurement, and disclosure drive water stewardship across sectors ❱ Circular water management becomes the norm ❱ Reliable sanitation and hygiene services become available for all as the sanitation economy thrives ❱ Collaborative efforts regenerate water-based ecosystems and minimize water pollution
