--- Page 1 ---
WBCSD membership conditions Members should be committed to the mission of WBCSD: WBCSD is a CEO-led organization of forward-thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. Together with its members, the Council applies its respected thought leadership and effective advocacy to generate constructive ‘business solutions for a sustainable world’ and to the objectives of WBCSD which are to: Membership of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is by invitation of the CEO of WBCSD and approved by the Executive Committee. We welcome expressions of interest in membership from companies with a commitment to sustainable development. → be a business thought leader and advocate for sustainable development; → participate in policy development to create the right framework conditions for business to make an effective contribution towards sustainable development; → develop and promote the business case for sustainable development; → develop scalable business solutions, and promote their implementation, for sustainable development; → demonstrate and measure the business contribution to sustainable development and share leading-edge practices among members; → contribute to a sustainable future for all nations. Members of WBCSD agree to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and further WBCSD’s Vision 2050.

--- Page 2 ---
WBCSD member companies are required to: Be legally and operationally independent; Be represented on the Council of WBCSD by the Chief Executive Officer or executive-level or board of directors’ representative, preferably with overall responsibility for sustainable development’s integration with business strategy and its execution; Nominate a Liaison Delegate, to manage the relationship with WBCSD and ensure optimum benefit for, and engagement of, the member company; Actively support the objectives and work plan of WBCSD as approved by the Council. This includes, but is not limited to, engaging and helping create scalable action around at least one of WBCSD’s Programs and their Projects; be willing to be actively involved by making in-house competence and appropriate personnel resources available; Fulfill five Membership Criteria effective from January 2023. Adherence is assessed annually through a review of standard, external communication of the company. Members are provided with a dashboard each year, detailing their assessed level of adherence. In case of non-adherence, members are asked to submit a Criteria Action Plan to propose actions to reach adherence or appeal their assessment. New members are expected to adhere within 24 months of joining WBCSD. A dedicated team takes responsibility for the management of, and adherence to, the Membership Criteria. The ExCo reviews progress and adherence to the Membership Criteria regularly, and in cases of non-adherence, recommends timely actions, commensurate with the situation. 1. Set an ambition to reach Net Zero GHG emissions no later than 2050 and have a science-informed plan to achieve it, that can include Natural Climate Solutions and other carbon removal solutions. GHG emissions include Scope 1, 2 and most relevant and influenceable elements of Scope 3. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 2. Set robust short and mid-term goals and targets, based on science, that contribute to halting and reversing nature loss by 2030, and full recovery by 2050. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 3. Support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by having in place a policy to respect human rights, a human rights due diligence process and an approach to grievance and remediation. Report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 4. Support diversity, equity and inclusion and the elimination of any form of discrimination. Set robust goals and targets and report progress annually in standard, external communication of the company; 5. Operate at the highest level of transparency: Disclose material sustainability-related financial and impact information using applicable standards; including significant impacts, financial effects, and information on how sustainability is integrated into governance, strategy, and risk management, using relevant metrics and targets. Member companies agree to have their sustainability report reviewed and benchmarked by WBCSD via a confidential process using transparent and objective criteria; Strive for consistent, constructive advocacy and be transparent about the position and actions the company is taking on sustainable development, either directly or through its trade associations; Pay the annual membership contribution for the category approved by the Council, and applicable project fees; payments need to be completed within the terms. A late payment surcharge will be applied to member companies in default. The company membership has no expiration without written notice of withdrawal; Notice of withdrawal of membership must be provided to the CEO of WBCSD in written form signed by the Council Member, from 1 January to 30 September, with membership resignation taking effect as of the first day of the following year. Notices received after 30 September (till 31 December) will result in the company’s withdrawal from WBCSD to take effect on the first day of the year after the following one. Members are required to cover their membership fees until their membership ends in accordance with these conditions.
