--- Page 1 ---
“The future of business is circular” A term coined by WBCSD became the rallying cry for many attendees, speakers and participants over the course of the event. WBCSD also announced our new circular economy program, Factor10 – bringing together 30 high level representatives from 15 companies for the very first Factor10 workshop. Factor10 aims to bring companies together to reinvent how business finds, uses and disposes of the materials that make up global trade. Get involved today! Our water working group released the Business Guide to Circular Water Management: Spotlight on Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. This first-of-its kind Guide brings together decision-making tools, case studies and best practice technologies to help companies seize the opportunities associated with circular water management practices. On 8 June, World Oceans Day, we also launched the Business Case for Reducing Ocean Waste (ROW) to help companies understand the key reasons for business to reduce plastic marine debris - including operational improvements, competitive advantage and maintaining core business. Sitra announced plans to host the Forum again next year, this time – outside of Finland. This week, 1500 circular economy experts from over 100 countries traveled to Helsinki, Finland for the first-ever World Circular Economy Forum (WCEF). WBCSD was a key organizing partner. Topline Takeaways Click on the blue underlined text to access the links Note: World Circular Economy Forum Maria Mendiluce was featured with Achim Steiner, of the United Nations Development Program, in Helsinki’s top newspaper, Helsingin Sanomat. In the article, Ms. Mendiluce underlined that circular economy isn’t just a buzzword, highlighting commitments from our members to push sustainability solutions forward. If you’re fluent in Finnish, check it out . Åsa Bergman , President of Sweco Sweden and WBCSD Leading Women Awardee, discussed circular innovations for cities. “Connected communities are the future, it’s time to embrace the circular economy,” she said. Stora Enso’s CEO Karl-Henrik Sundström asked the audience, “Have you ever thought about what a tree can do?” - delving into circular solutions and renewable resources. Maria Mendiluce, Managing Director of WBCSD’s Natural Capital Area launched our CEO Guide to the Circular Economy onstage during plenary. The guide is designed to help CEOs take the first steps towards implementing the circular economy. Thirsty for more? Don’t miss the 2017 Sustainability and Circular Economy Summit happening 26-28 June in Washington D.C. In the Spotlight: Circular water management will give us the opportunity to break the silos and develop a collaborative approach between resources (water, energy, materials) and stakeholders (industries, communities and cities) to resource the world. Laurent Auguste Senior Executive Vice President of Development, Innovation & Markets at Veolia Environment
