--- Page 1 ---
‘Asks’ to the private sector in the response to COVID-19 Protect against COVID-19 The Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan and COVID-19 Strategy update outline public health measures needed to support countries to prepare for and respond to COVID-19. In this effort, the private sector has a critical role to play locally, nationally and globally. The following “Asks” have been prepared for businesses to take concrete actions. Published: May 2020 Protect your stakeholders The outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) has introduced new challenges to the business environment, which call for a proactive response from leaders. It is important to take into account the well- being and interest of all stakeholders to help mitigate the impact of the crisis. The following action points and resources will help businesses to navigate the situation in an informed, responsible and practical way. Protect the health of your staff, community, service providers and clients by informing them about COVID-19 and WHO recommended protection measures at workplaces and towards external stakeholders Protect jobs and livelihoods to lower the impact of the crisis on people and the community Support WHO in managing the global infodemic and fighting mis-information Protect your business Businesses from all sectors are facing great challenges, including to their operations and solvency. The information below will further help position businesses to be more resilient. Put business continuity plans into action , in coordination with local/national authorities Prioritize supply chain continuity of essential health and non-health products (food, soap, etc.) Maintain essential support infrastructures and services (water, transports, electricity, hygiene and waste management, etc.) Protect jobs to retain skills and experience Act responsibly towards your suppliers and service providers Useful links WHO resources Getting Your Workplace Ready for COVID-19 How to protect yourself Risk communication and community engagement Guidance for schools, workplaces and institutions EPI-WIN WHO updates/infodemic management External resources Occupational safety and health tips for workplaces (ILO) Sectoral tools and Instruments to protect workers from the pandemic (ILO) Action Checklist: Prevention and Mitigation of COVID-19 at Work (ILO) COVID-19 and the world of work (ILO) Key Country Policy Responses (OECD) Practical steps for business (ICC) Generic guide for combatting the spread of COVID-19 at work (IOE) Useful links External resources Small Business Continuity Toolkit (UNDRR) COVID-19 Business Continuity Guide (ICC) The six-step COVID-19 business continuity plan (ILO) Guidance on teleworking (IOE) Guidance on surviving COVID-19 and coming out strong (IOE) Supply Chain Leadership during COVID-19 (ICC) Guide – Return to work during COVID-19 (IOE-SHRM)

--- Page 2 ---
Engage/participate in the COVID-19 response Use our information Essential supplies Produce, where possible, essential supplies according to official specifications, national laws, regulations Repurpose, where feasible, production facilities towards these essential supplies (e.g., personal protective equipment (PPE) from garment industry facilities, or hand sanitizer from fragrance industry facilities, etc.) Provide in-kind contributions – including goods and professional services (technology, expertise, transport, etc.) – towards the updated WHO COVID-19 Strategy (14 April 2020) and for the needs of health authorities Make supplies and services available and inform and coordinate your production and in-kind contributions with health authorities, UN or WHO focal points and other relevant stakeholders Keep up-to-date and implement guidance from WHO and national and local public authorities Amplify WHO’s public health advice and key messages through your employee, business and partner networks Participate in the ICC Business Survey in response to COVID-19 Useful links WHO resources Operational support and logistics disease commodity package COVID-19 Strategy update - 14 April 2020 COVID-19 essential resource planning Donations of in-kind critical items WHO resources Country and Technical Guidance - COVID-19 Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Pandemic Situation Reports WHO Information Network for Epidemics (EPI-WIN) How to protect yourself Travel advice Take Action COVID-19 SOLIDARITY RESPONSE FUND External resources ICC Business Survey (ICC) COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan (OCHA) COVID-19 Pandemic in Locations with a Humanitarian Response Plan (OCHA) COVID-19 Action Platform (WEF) COVID-19 Business Response Platform (IOE) Protecting women and children (EWEC) Useful links Financial Provide financial support through the WHO COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund . The Fund has been set up with the sole purpose to address urgent global and country needs in responding to the COVID-19 crisis and with tax deduction where possible Support NGO and community needs in coordination with local authorities Useful links WHO resources Funding updates for donors and partners Responding to the COVID-19 crises to address urgent global and country needs COVID -19 Solidarity Response Fund FAQs External resources UN COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan (CBi) UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund (OCHA) Socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 (UNSG) Donate Now SUBMIT YOUR IN-KIND OFFER HERE All reasonable precautions have been taken by WHO to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall WHO be liable for damages arising from its use. © World Health Organization 2020. Some rights reserved. This work is available under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO licence.
