--- Page 1 ---
What are the external datasets used? Almost 30 external datasets are contained in the tool. These include: Sector customizations The Global Water Tool has been customized to fit the specifi c needs of two industries. Power Utilities Sector for Power Utilities Led by CH2M HILL and EDF, the tool was shaped and piloted by a group of member companies with power production operations worldwide – www.wbcsd.org Oil and Gas Sector for Oil and Gas The customized IPIECA Global Water Tool was developed by CH2M HILL in collaboration with WBCSD and piloted by 15 global oil and gas companies – www.ipieca.org/ o-g-watertool Download it FREE from: www.wbcsd.org The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a CEO-led, global coalition of some 200 companies advocating for progress on sustainable development. Its mission is to be a catalyst for innovation and sustainable growth in a world where resources are increasingly limited. WBCSD Water The Water Project’s leadership group comprises of 29 global companies representing 12 industrial sectors (July 2011). They share a common vision aspiring to achieve, by 2050 responsible water management throughout their value chains and operate in an environment where all people and businesses have access to safe and reliable water supply and adequate sanitation. More information available: • How to use guide • Dataset details • FAQs • User feedback Questions? GlobalWaterTool@wbcsd.org The tool is very flexible: it can be customized to a company’s own set of water metrics and used in combination with other local assessment tools Kimberly-Clark These come from the most credible publicly available sources and are global in their coverage. Country • UN FAO AQUASTAT • WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program • UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (UNDESA) Watershed • World Resource Institute (WRI) • University of New Hampshire (UNH) • International Water Management Institute (IWMI) • Conservation International (CI) Economic and Physical Water Scarcity Access to Improved Water & Sanitation Water Stress Index Biodiversity Hotspots Renewable Water Resources per person for 2025 & 2050 The Tool helps companies to identify and prioritize sites and suppliers requiring implementation of water management plans PepsiCo

--- Page 2 ---
2 2 2 2 Launched in 2007, the Global Water Tool was developed under the leadership of WBCSD member CH2M HILL in close collaboration with a group of 21 other global companies and with expertise from The Nature Conservancy and the Global Reporting Initiative. The Advisory Board included: Air Products and Chemicals, Alcoa, Anglo American, Borealis, ConocoPhillips, Degussa, DuPont, GrupoNueva, Holcim, ITT, Kimberly-Clark, Lafarge, PepsiCo, Rio Tinto, Royal Dutch Shell, Sanyo, Suncor Energy, Suez, Syngenta, The Dow Chemical Company and Unilever More than 300 corporations have used the tool which has been regularly updated with improved datasets and functionalities. What does it do? • Compares your company’s water use with validated water, sanitation, population and biodiversity information • Establishes relative water risks in a company’s portfolio in order to prioritize action • Creates key water reporting indicators in addition to inventories, risk and performance metrics • Generates maps, charts and tables summarizing results • Enables effective communication with internal and external stakeholders 2. Online mapping This feature enables you to plot all of your sites with external water datasets and download these locations in a map . Supplier site locations can also be mapped, looking beyond operational water use. The tool is connected with Google Earth providing spatial viewing of your site locations in relation to detailed geographic information. Zoom in and get real impressions! THE GLOBAL WATER TOOL To manage your water globally, you need to know the water situation locally CH2M HILL 1 1 The tool provided us with a simple means to rapidly assess water risks to our sites globally and a compelling means to communicate our fi ndings visually DuPont The tool created a comprehensive and dynamic picture of our operations’ water use and helped us to better scope our approach to water risks Borealis The tool generates output which can be used for internal water management strategies and goal setting, as well as for external reporting Bayer The tool is comprised of: 1. Excel workbook One input sheet contains all of your site location and water usage information. Automatic outputs include key water indicators from the Global Reporting Initiative, Bloomberg, CDP Water and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes together with downloadable metrics charts combining company information with country and watershed data. Who is it for? Companies and organizations operating in multiple countries who need to better understand the water issues in their operations and that of their extended supply chain. A free and easy-to-use tool for companies and organizations to map their water use and assess risks relative to their global operations and supply chains. • How many of your sites are in water-scarce areas? Which sites are at greatest risk? • How much of your total production is generated from your most at risk sites? • How many of your suppliers are in water-scarce areas? How will that look in the future? • How many of your employees live in countries that lack access to improved water and sanitation? This tool will help you answer these questions and more. It does not provide specific guidance on local situations, which require more in-depth systematic analysis.
