--- Page 1 ---
CASE STUDIES CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS Key challenges At Whirlpool, we have focused our first assessment on a single production plant, producing only washing machines. All inputs were referred to one washing machine unit, but easily scalable to the whole production units. For us, one of the main challenges were data availability at the level of detail needed by the tool. Several of our Bill of Material (BOM) items are components / assembly that we buy from suppliers, requiring detailed information from tier 2 and beyond suppliers (for example, for control boards we don’t require every single material composition). Solutions We had several “product teardown analysis” made to compare our products with similar products from the industry. Such analysis produces a very detailed list of information, including mass and typology / composition of material and chemicals used. Due to the labor intensiveness of this process, we only perform detailed analysis on a limited number of products. To run the tool, we selected a product (washing machine) among the ones used for the teardown analysis that we consider as being representative of what we produce in the manufacturing plant selected for the assessment. Results The assessment confirmed our assumptions that we use materials that can be currently recycled (and they are in the so-called open loops), but we don’t currently use a high percentage of recycled materials in our products. In other words, our products have the potential to be much more circular than what we see today. Our number one priority will be to focus on the development of recycled plastics to increase the circularity indicator and help us meet our goals to improve the amount of recycled content in our products as we have pledged. At Whirlpool, we have sustainability goals at company and product level, related to - among others - greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and plastic waste reduction; circular business models such as the use of recycled plastics - would enable reaching such goals. The Circular Transition Indicators are thus internal indicators to support us in continuously monitor and improve our performance to reach our overall sustainability goals. Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it! The Circular Transition Indicators launched by WBCSD allow us to easily self-assess our products towards circularity performance to further define targets, priorities and to monitor progress. Roberta Bernasconi Senior Manager EMEA Sustainability, Whirlpool. Organization name: Whirlpool Number of employees: 92,000 Industry: Consumer products and services Annual turnover: €21 billion Website: www.whirlpoolcorp.com
