--- Page 1 ---
Zero Emissions Cities (ZEC) is a program of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and aims to develop replicable and scalable models to get cities onto a zero emissions pathway. Amsterdam Zuidoost is one of the pilot projects together with Birmingham (UK), Navi Mumbai (India), and San Diego (US). More cities will be part of this program. The full membership of WBCSD’s Zero Emissions Cities program is composed of Accenture, AECOM, Arcadis, DNV GL, ENGIE, Schneider Electric, Toshiba and UPS. WBCSD is a global, CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses and partners working together to accelerate the transition to a sustainable world. We help make our member companies more successful and sustainable by focusing on the maximum positive impact for shareholders, the environment and societies. Our member companies come from all business sectors and all major economies, representing a combined revenue of more than $8.5 trillion and 19 million employees. Our global network of almost 70 national business councils gives our members unparalleled reach across the globe. WBCSD is uniquely positioned to work with member companies along and across value chains to deliver impactful business solutions to the most challenging sustainability issues. Together, we are the leading voice of business for sustainability: united by our vision of a world where more than 9 billion people are all living well and within the boundaries of our planet, by 2050. www.wbcsd.org Are you interested in learning more about this innovative approach? Please contact us Jacqueline Giesen , ENGIE Energie Nederland Jacqueline giesen@engie.com Tel: +31 88 769 19 15 Bob Mantel , City of Amsterdam b.mantel@amsterdam.nl Tel: +31 68 364 62 73 Claudia Schweizer , WBCSD schweizer@wbcsd.org Tel: +41 22 839 31 50 Collaborative sustainable projects to reduce emissions Building a Zero Emissions City in Amsterdam Zuidoost

--- Page 2 ---
ArenA Stadium Zuidoost Amsterdam Buildings energy efficiency Energy smart sustainable Water drinking, waste, storm water systems Waste reduce, reuse, recycle, recover Mobility efficient transport modes circular economy resilient and productive systems Low carbon freight avoiding journeys where possible modal shift to lower-carbon transport systems lowering energy intensity reducing carbon intensity of fuels Sustainable consumption enhancing the quality of life, improving resource efficiency, increasing the use of renewable energy sources, minimising waste, taking a life cycle perspective and taking into account the equity dimension eco-city designed with consideration of environmental impact Communication integrated global communications ZO Energy Climate Change overall contribution to climate change will be minimal Under the umbrella of its Zero Emissions Cities (ZEC) project, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and its member companies Accenture, Arcadis, DNV GL, ENGIE, Schneider Electric, and UPS have joined forces with the municipality of Amsterdam and local partners including Amsterdam ArenA, TNO and ING to develop an implementation strategy for selected zero emissions energy initiatives in Amsterdam Zuidoost. The partnership engages stakeholders to develop concrete actions towards achieving a shared zero emissions cities vision. The ZEC project is helping the Amsterdam municipality become more efficient at achieving its sustainability goals by encouraging local stakeholders to coordinate and finance their sustainability initiatives through a central organization in Zuidoost: ZO Energy . ZO Energy is aligning local stakeholders on collaborative sustainability initiatives around the zero emissions approach. The revenues from these activities will be reinvested in ZO Energy as the central organization for the area. Amsterdam ArenA’s Utility Hub initiative is the first result of this multi-stakeholder collaboration. The Hub will help Zuidoost move toward shared use of energy resources and infrastructures. A feasibility study on energy for ArenA and ING’s new headquarters will be conducted to analyze the best approach. More stakeholders are invited to join this hub. The Municipality of Amsterdam and WBCSD will sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on 8 June at the Smart City Event in Amsterdam to formalize this new partnership.
