--- Page 1 ---
Partnership to Support an Accelerated Transition to Zero Emission Vehicles in India As representatives of the Governments of India, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, with a view to mobilizing political, technical and financial assistance to support Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) transitions and wider improved sustainable mobility in Emerging Markets and Developing Economies (EMDEs 1 ), we: 1. Jointly decide , as outlined in the ‘COP27 Global Commitment to Strengthening the International Assistance for EMDEs in the Road Transport Sector’, to collectively work together to systematically strengthen engagement, such as through improving the coordination, accessibility, inclusivity and overall availability of financial and technical assistance – including knowledge sharing – to support EMDE countries, such as India, in its transition to ZEVs. 2. Intend – as key initiatives under the Global Commitment and this Partnership – to launch: a) A ZEV Country Pilot with India to develop a framework that will help provide focused and coordinated support to help India accelerate its domestic ZEV transition and realize its full ambitions in this sector, in line with its nationally determined contribution and G20 Presidency ambitions – and to learn from this cooperation to influence the development of a cooperation model that can be replicated and scaled up across more countries and regions in future. b) A ZEV Emerging Markets Initiative Partnership with India – to facilitate partnerships between India and international companies to accelerate private investment and public policies, enabling both to achieve their ambitious ZEV deployment goals. 3. Underscore, throughout our efforts to provide focused and coordinated support, the importance of seeking to ensure strong linkages with these initiatives as well as with the ZEV International Assistance Taskforce’s Country Projects and Partnerships Working Group, other initiatives also launched at COP27 (including the ZEV Rapid Response Facility), and wider bilateral and multilateral support. 5. Recognize this multilateral partnership between governments aims to complement and build on existing bilateral and multilateral initiatives already in place and utilize existing extensive networks and expertise to ensure progress can be made holistically and in the most efficient way. 6. Note that support for this work will be facilitated through the ZEV Transition Council, engaging with NITI Aayog in India and with day-to-day activities being led, where applicable, by the ZEV Secretariat, the U.S. State Department, the U.K. Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and with the support or engagement of other governments and non-government stakeholders as appropriate. 7. Therefore, as a next step we plan to convene together, alongside wider partners, in early 2023 to develop a detailed plan for both initiatives and hear, first-hand, the key priorities and ambitions of India in their transition to ZEVs; ensuring strong momentum throughout 2023, with a view to publishing updates and showcasing progress – including setting out next steps, where appropriate – at COP28. 1 In this context, EMDEs refer to the 140 ODA recipient countries currently on the DAC list (2022-23) – here
