--- Page 1 ---
MOBILITY SURVEY SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Putting in place a sustainable mobility strategy and associated corporate mobility policies can often be challenging due to a lack of information. Businesses often are not aware of how their employees commute or their expectations concerning sustainable mobility. A mobility survey allows for a more accurate view of the commuting and business mobility baseline by asking employees about their current commute and pain points, their potential alternatives, their expectations and the options they would be willing to adopt and how the company can contribute to these options. Mobility surveys are also used to evaluate how mobility changes over time and the impact of corporate mobility policies. Several consulting firms provide mobility assessments and can help introduce a strategy based on a mobility survey. Businesses can also do the assessments themselves, through independent surveys or as part of employee satisfaction surveys. In some cases, information from mobility surveys can be replaced or completed by information provided by employees for their travel cost reimbursements. However, usage of this data might be restricted depending on the terms under which it was provided. Objectives pursued: Establish a mobility baseline to have valid data to design adequate corporate mobility measures, set coherent sustainability goals, gather employees’ expectations, evaluate impact of corporate mobility policies if surveys are run regularly and commuters can assess implemented measures. Context: This measure can be adopted in any context and is a first step to set up a strategy. Main benefits Mobility surveys allow to establish a baseline from which improvements can be measured, as well as to measure evolutions in mobility behavior and the adoption of mobility measures when done on a regular basis. Cost elements: Dependent on the survey extent and the number of employees surveyed. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed As with any survey, response rates can be low. These can be increased by communicating the reasons why the survey is done, reminding the employees to fill out the survey and associating survey response to actions that will be taken to improve mobility. Metrics for impact evaluation The survey does not directly impact mobility but helps identify the baseline and the measures that should be taken. Its success can be measured through the response rate and, over time, by solution impacts like less congestion, more reliability, less costs or travel time. Our members using mobility surveys
