--- Page 1 ---
Reckitt to be Hygiene Partner for COP26 30 March 2021: Reckitt announces its partnership with the UK Government to reinforce good hygiene practices as the COP26 Hygiene Partner at the climate change summit in Glasgow between 1-12 th November. As Hygiene Partner committed to combatting climate change, Reckitt will provide an unrivalled level of scientific and medical expertise to develop and implement hygiene protocols of the highest standards. Today’s announcement demonstrates Recki tt’s purpose in action: to protect heal and nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world. It is already committed to: • science-based targets to meet the Paris Climate Agreement by 2030; • be carbon neutral by 2040; and • power its operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2030. Reckitt’s support reinforces the connection between planetary health and the health of people around the world who are impacted by global warming. These are key goals in Reckitt ’ s ambitions for 2030 in its programme For a Cleaner Healthier World . Reckitt’s ambition is to reach half the world with purpose-led brands and engage 2 billion people in programmes, partnerships and campaigns that inspire behaviour change and create a positive impact. Throughout the pandemic, Reckitt’s purpose -led brands such as Dettol and Lysol have played a significant role in keeping people protected. T oday’s announcement follows hygiene partnerships with Transport for London, the English Football Association and British Airways, providing essential reassurance to those travelling and attending events that they can do so safely with enhanced hygiene protection. For COP26, Reckitt will supply products from its leading germ protection brand Dettol that are efficacious against the SARS-CoV-2 virus and new variants. Laxman Narasimhan, CEO, Reckitt said : “We’re delighted to be the Hygiene Partner for COP26 and provide our expertise at this pivotal moment in our collective fight against climate change. Throughout our 200-year heritage, we have used our scientific expertise to advance public health, including the innovation of Dettol in Hull in the 1930s to tackle the scourge of sepsis. Today we have reinforced our commitments to combat climate change in our ‘For A Cleaner , Healthier World’ roadmap. Climate change, planetary health and public health are intrinsically linked. As the world convenes to take collective action in November, we look forward to playing our part in a successful, historic and safe summit. ”

--- Page 2 ---
COP26 President Alok Sharma said: “Bu sinesses have a key role to play in helping us build back greener and Reckitt has shown strong leadership by making a clear commitment to combating climate change through science-based measures. Good hygiene practices are the foundation of health and I am delighted to welcome Reckitt as Hygiene Partner for COP26. I look forward to working together to ensure a successful outcome at the summit later this year.” NOTES TO EDITORS: For further information on Reckitt and its support for COP26, please contact: James Fearnley-Marr, Reckitt: James.Fearnley-Marr@rb.com Faeth Birch / Chris Ryall, Finsbury: rb@finsbury.com About Reckitt: Reckitt* exists to protect, heal and nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world. W e believe that access to the highest-quality hygiene, wellness and nourishment is a right, not a privilege. Reckitt is the company behind some of the world’s most recognis able and trusted consumer brands in hygiene, health and nutrition, including Enfamil, Nutramigen, Nurofen, Strepsils, Gaviscon, Mucinex, Durex, Clearasil, Lysol, Dettol, Veet, Harpic, Cillit Bang, Mortein, Finish, Vanish, Calgon, Woolite, Air Wick and more. Every day, more than 20 million Reckitt products are bought globally. We always put consumers and people first, seek out new opportunities, strive for excellence in all that we do, and build shared success with all our partners. We aim to do the right thing, always. We are a diverse global team of more than 43,000 colleagues. We draw on our collective energy to meet our ambitions of purpose-led brands, a healthier planet and a fairer society. Find out more, or get in touch with us, at www.reckitt.com *Reckitt is the trading name of the Reckitt Benckiser group of companies
