--- Page 1 ---
Emergence of “born social” companies More and more consumers are making buying decisions based on social value drivers–helping “born social” companies disrupt industries. Acute scrutiny from widening set of stakeholders Customers, employees, shareholders, and even followers on social media are calling for greater corporate transparency, as less than half 1 of the general public trusts business to do what is right. Higher impact through technology Businesses can achieve impact for a larger population at a lower cost than ever before. For example, 700 million people gained access to financial services between 2011 and 2014, in part propelled by increased access to mobile media, reducing the unbanked population by 20%. Support for high impact businesses New legal structures have emerged to promote integration of business and social impact and new financing structures are fueling the change. Impact investment funds 3 over 2014 16% License to innovate Breakthrough strategies for social impact The world is changing The cost of inaction may be high... ... and the potential is big. Example: The global increase in middle income consumers 4 Irrelevance to a core customer in the face of changing preferences Loss of purpose- driven talent , particularly millennials Loss of market share in the face of competition or disruption by “born socials” Today 2030 4.9 billion 2 billion For companies looking to innovate new offerings that deliver measurable social impact, there are five primary strategies a company can pursue. Many considerations factor into which strategy–or combination of strategies–a company chooses. Among other differences, strategies vary by the extent to which the company drives the innovation process versus relying on external partners to support a new solution’s development, as visualized below. Problem identification Solution development Proof of concept Scale and diffusion Ideation Externally dependent Internally dependent Innovation process Invest in external solutions Invest to advance external solutions demonstrating profitability and impact 1 Engage a network Engage in networked problem solving with other organizations to identify and test possible solutions to scale 2 Accelerate externally Secure external services to accelerate the solution development 3 Sandbox solutions Advance internally developed solutions into a viable proof of concept through a shared proving ground 4 Innovate in-house A dvance a pipeline of solutions fully in-house 5 Company-run Led by external partner(s) Ready to embark on a social impact strategy? Consider the following questions: Does the initiative connect with the culture and values of the organization and its stakeholders? Is the company ready to move from focusing solely on the functionality of its offerings to evaluating the impact they achieve? Is the company prepared to invest the additional time and resources required to drive new customer adoption and achieve impact? Does the team running the social innovation process have a realistic, honest sense of the company’s strengths, potential blind spots, and areas where external support is needed? 1 2 3 4

--- Page 2 ---
Invest in external solutions Engage a network Accelerate externally Innovate in-house Sandbox solutions Strategies in action 5 Key considerations Watch out for… DSM’s (global science-based company) venture group acts as an “outside-in” innovation arm, investing in 50+ startups. Be mindful of the timing of investments as they relate to a company’s funding cycle. Exploring new socially impactful business models may yield fewer comparable deals and data, requiring more investee communication & a more bespoke diligence process. … deliberating over data limitations to the extent that the company misses out on co-investment opportunities with fast-moving venture capitalists and other investors. Firmenich co-founded the “Toilet Board Coalition,” together with ~15 large multinationals and sanitation expert organizations to accelerate sanitation solutions in developing countries. Find ways to achieve equitable distribution of responsibilities for a fair give-and-take. Lightweight, flexible solutions may work better when the goal is wide participation. …failing to incentivize and reward high-performing contributors, who may harbor resentment that their efforts are treated the same as less- active contributors. External incubators co-develop and co-invest in for-profit ventures with multinational corporations. Select a service provider whose strengths complement the company’s internal capabilities. …outsourcing a solution concept because it’s convenient when perhaps it shouldn’t be pursued at all. Toronto’s MaRS Discovery District creates a cross-sector support system for emergent solutions. Align on the systemic barriers that must be overcome to be successful. …the misunderstandings and disagreements that may occur when contributors bring together their solutions late in the process. PepsiCo has increased R&D spending on health-focused basic research, while Philips developed an incubator in its Africa innovation Hub. Secure buy-in from the highest levels of leadership throughout the organization. Anticipate that a social innovation team will operate differently than other departments; establish required lines of reporting. …“blind spots” that can arise when innovating internally: companies should understand new, unique consumers and avoid dismissing external partners. No, external barriers still stand in the way We think so! Does your company have a solution in mind to achieve high growth and high impact? Are there the resources and capacity needed to advance the solution(s)? Are you looking for solutions with proven efficacy or are you looking to surface new potential solutions? Does the company want to build its capacity to innovate new solutions? Is there an interest in co-developing solutions? Once a solution is developed, is the company able to bring it to market and to scale? What about investing in other solutions? Show us the evidence! We need to find solutions that are more compelling than existing options No, we’re looking to the external landscape for inspiration No No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Yes, we have solution(s) in mind Not necessarily Are there resources to invest in scaling the solution? Does leadership support using resources and capacity for social innovation? Take no actions Finding your “best fit” strategy for social impact Copyright © 2016 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited To learn more about WBCSD, please visit us at http://www.wbcsd.org/home.aspx To learn more about Deloitte Consulting’s Social Impact practice, please visit us at www.deloitte.com/us/socialimpactconsulting To read the full report, please visit www.deloitte.com/us/license-to-innovate How can your company pursue social innovation? A company’s capabilities make certain strategies more feasible than others but there are also other important considerations that shape its choices, such as a company’s objectives and desired roles in the innovation process. The internal conditions, not to mention the performance of competitors and others in the external landscape, also play a role. Explore the choices below that might lead a company to pursue one of the five strategies over another. Here’s how you can implement the “best fit” strategy—or combination of strategies —for your company. 1: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_EvolutionTrustBusinessDeliveryValues_report_2015.pdf 2: http://mondato.com/blog/findex-2014/ 3: http://www.thegiin.org/assets/documents/pub/2015.04%20Eyes%20on%20the%20Horizon.pdf (pg 15) 4: http://www.reuters.com/middle-class-infographic 5: Company websites and interviews Sources
