--- Page 1 ---
ABB – Sharing Knowledge Program in Colombia

--- Page 2 ---
CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work ABB Colombia is a subsidiary of the Swedish-Swiss leader in industrial automation company ABB. What was the business need? In 2012, ABB Colombia started its Sharing Knowledge Program (SKP) – a free courses program - because it is committed to the education of Colombians and the transfer of knowledge, resulting from more than 100 years of the company’s global research. SKP’s main objective is to bring industry knowledge to different Colombian universities, complementing their current educational offers to promote technical skills needs relevant to the company. Its courses provide current technical knowledge for existing and new products, processes and technology advancements. They can be delivered at ABB facilities, at universities or online and are taught by experts from ABB. The initiative is part of ABB Colombia’s corporate responsibility program that establishes promoting and participating in community activities that encourage economic, environmental, social and educational growth as part of the commitment of the organization with the communities where it operates. What was the target group / audience? ABB Colombia regards knowledge as engine of productivity and continued market growth in a global environment. Its comprehensive training courses offered through SKP are aimed at engineers, programmers, technicians and technologists, maintenance and operations personnel. Courses of 2 to 3 hours are given on site and virtually by company experts to university students and the general public, and attendees can earn certificates of attendance issued by ABB. What were the key activities? To register, ABB Colombia sends a call for expression of interest through social networks. Participation is free and the first ones who sign up have the opportunity to join the training. The courses facilitate understanding of concepts such as energy efficiency, the electrical industry, automation and how it can be applied through equipment to the industry, helping to increase the productivity of processes and therefore, considerably reduce costs. The participants have learned about the latest technological advances in the electrical and automation industries. Technology trends addressed in the courses include: Selection of electrical motors, speed control in electrical motors, electromagnetic conversion, power electronics, robotics, energy efficiency, automation applications, infrastructure for electric vehicles, machine design and power transmission. How has the impact of the program been measured? In 2018, 6 courses were taught in 4 universities, reaching more than 200 attendees. 6,000 people were reached through posts in social networks. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Colombia 100 – 500 employees Industrial Products University Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
