--- Page 1 ---
Adecco – International Future Leaders Program

--- Page 2 ---
The Adecco Group (TAG), based in Zurich, Switzerland, is the world's second largest Human Resources provider and temporary staffing firm. What was the business need? Prior to 2017, TAG was the holding company for different country level entities, with each country having their own HR program. As the company embarked upon a transformation to a vertically integrated multinational, it became clear that for company-wide training and development programs were required. One of the primary gaps was a leadership program to accelerate talent through the organization – the company was missing a pipeline of talent with the skills needed at leadership levels. In response, TAG conducted an exercise to identify and define the critical skills for leaders in the new organization, resulting in: digital skills, building a business case, pricing, agile working, Lean 6 Sigma, PMO skills. What program was implemented? The International Future Leaders Program (IFL) was established to build these skills amongst the potential leaders in the TAG organization. It is designed to develop skills with a global lens and facilitate participants in building a network at the global level. The IFL runs for 18 months, with each intake comprising approximately 30 delegates drawn from Adecco businesses from across the world. Applicants are nominated and selected on the basis of their experience at TAG, demonstrated management and performance criteria. The program is based on face-to-face training, delivered in partnerships with Internal & external SME’s, with participants receiving relevant qualifications ( e.g., Design Thinking, Agile Change management). Additionally, there are two project elements: (1) groups of 4-5 delegates are allocated a real business problems or potential business ideas by the Executive Committee (ExCo) for which they develop a solution using the skills that they have learnt on the program. Following a selection panel and a presentation to the ExCo, the final winner is presented at the group-wide Global Leader Conference and the idea is subsequently implemented; (2) an in-market project where the delegates independently deliver a project with the objective of creating business improvement in their own area of work. With the global restrictions due to the pandemic the program continues to operate virtually. Did the organization face any challenges? The IFL program coordinators quickly realized that it is important to involve the delegate's manager and their local HR director in the process so as to ensure that they understand the nature of the programmer, its benefits, and the commitment that it entails on the part pf the participant. To this effect, there is a kick-off call with the manager and the local HR staff, and invitations to events and training are shared with managers so that they know the time commitment and can adjust workload. The development of the IFL was internally driven. This reflects the philosophy that while inspiration can be drawn from other training and development programs, a business has its own needs, circumstances and objectives, which are best met by making specific programs. How has the impact of the program been measured? The IFL incorporates an extensive feedback process, which allows the organization to capture delegate's experience of the program and to identify gaps and potential for improvement. Participant engagement is captured as part of this, and scores are generally high. The delegate's manager and the local HR business are also surveyed at the mid-point and the end of the program and asked for their experience of the IFL and whether they see the delegate bringing new skills to their job. Based on this feedback, there is a constant cycle of adjustment reflecting the feedback received. Key indicators collected include internal promotions (since the program aims at progressing talent) and cross-country moves (since the program also aims at talent rotation within the group). Additionally, the retention rate of participants is also monitored, and this is higher than the company average. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Switzerland 10,000+ employees Human Capital Services Management Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
