--- Page 1 ---
Ayala – Professional Employment Program

--- Page 2 ---
iPeople is an education business created as partnership between Ayala, founded in the Philippines and the country's oldest and largest conglomerate, and Yuchengco Group of Companies (YGC), one of the oldest and largest conglomerates in Southeast Asia. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Philippines 10,000+ employees Education Early career Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 How does iPeople identify the business needs of employers? Predicting future demands is a challenge, as simply asking employers does not work and the future is usually just viewed in short time frames of a few months, making it extremely difficult for academia and education providers to react. Therefore, iPeople meets regularly with employers to learn about their emerging challenges and forecast future skills requirements. For instance, a skill employers in the Philippines constantly look for is English speaking skills, particularly for high paying jobs in the finance, banking and accounting sector. Additionally, company and industry or sector information is captured, enabling the organization to understand evolution and emergence of business needs and to prioritize high demand capabilities in their learning and development programs. As a result, iPeople can clearly identify gaps and adjust programs to the skills needs of employers. What program was implemented? iPeople has five higher education schools and two basic education schools which offer a range of employability bridging programs, one of which is the Professional Employment Program (PEP), which acts as bridge between academia and industry. The goal of the program is to increase the labor market participation readiness and thus employment speed and average wage accomplished. In an oversupplied labor market, one key objective of PEP is to help graduates stand out. PEP graduates undergo five months of rigorous training focused on both getting a job and retaining that job. Also, iPeople ’s classrooms are tech-enabled and designed to emulate the workplace. Consequently, there are no lectures, homework or tests and the professors act as employers. Students are put into real work situations where they are given work-related projects to complete and problems to solve. iPeople then evaluates their students’ outcomes against work standards and if they do not reach industry standard, they are asked to attempt the task again. Teachers are partners in each learner’s journey and work alongside them to achieve their goals. Importantly, the students are not driven by a grade, but by the potential of being offered a job. Did the organization face any challenges? Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic required adjustments in iPeople's way of working. Following the upgrade and acceleration of its systems through technology, the organization recognized the need to pay more attention to the different contexts of students, for example by simply identifying if all had access to the internet and a computer. The goal was hence to enable all students enrolled in the program to benefit from all learning opportunities. How has the impact of the program been measured? iPeople uses the following KPIs to measure the success of its program: • How many learners are employed and how soon after graduation; the standard for PEP is 90% employment in 90 days. • Wage of the jobs secured compared against average monthly wages (minimum) of non-PEP graduates; education is an investment into someone’s future – the higher the wage, the faster the return on investment for the student. • Given the high demand for strong English language skills, BPO (business process outsourcing) acceptance rate for PEP graduates is used as proxy measurement to evaluate the strength of these skills. Even if other companies prefer strong English-speaking skills, they usually don’t employ the same stringent language tests as that of BPO firms. CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
