--- Page 1 ---
C.P. Group – Upskilling to support digital transformation

--- Page 2 ---
The Charoen Pokphand (C.P.) Group is a Thai conglomerate based in Bangkok. It is Thailand's largest private company and one of the world's largest conglomerates. What was the business need? C.P. Group is a conglomerate which employs more than 400,000 people worldwide, across eight business lines and is moving into new industries while increasingly working in fields which use AI, robotics and other technical innovations. The Group’s CEO hence launched the digitalization of the entire organization to integrate and synergize various companies within C.P. Group, giving impetus to large-scale workforce upskilling efforts. Direction, strategy and investment of the company are driving a focus on tech skills. The Group’s definition of tech skills includes soft skills such as ‘resilience’, a necessary part of risk-management and an essential part of C.P. Group’s Future of Work strategy. Equally, they are focusing on health and wellbeing skill sets and how employees can effectively work off-site, in light of the COVID-19 crisis. A third soft skill of interest is leadership. While each business unit has its own priorities and approaches in training its workforce, the overarching theme employed throughout the group is ‘Action Learning’ or learning by doing. What program was implemented? At business unit level, each company regularly reviews its training needs via diagnostic assessments to define the baseline and prioritize short-, medium- and long- term business needs. These chosen skill sets are reviewed at least yearly, or earlier, in case of new strategic priorities, new tech or a skills gap. The need for new skills moves quickly and the companies prioritize upskilling their current workforce, rather than recruiting. This retains organizational knowledge and talent, whilst keeping skill sets relevant to the role. At group level, C.P. Group’s Learning Team identifies relevant areas for employee development that will strengthen the organization’s ability to grow strategically. Two major undertakings include the implementation of the ‘Action Learning’ approach for leadership development, and the development of skills to support the group’s digital transformation. On the digital front, the Group has partnered with Bangchan General Assembly – an automobile assembly company – to launch the “True Digital Academy”, providing digital skills training for companies within the Group as well as the general public. Training is offered both online and in-person and emphasizes interaction and collaboration to provide participants real hands-on experiences. Last but not least, the C.P. Leadership Institute, through its Future Leaders Program, enables young leaders to switch from their day-to-day work to a 6-month upskilling program where they can take part in real business projects, work with team members from various companies and functions, and can be guided by CEOs and other top executives as coaches. Assessment of their leadership, business management, and people management skills are conducted along the way, as well as their understanding of the Group’s values. After finishing the program, participants have greater opportunities to pursue their career across different business units. Did the organization face any challenges? COVID-19 has had unexpected benefits for upskilling within the C.P. Group, as it has been an important driver towards digital transformation. Whilst it is preferable to do technical learning in a classroom setting, there was an increase in the amount of time employees had available to learn virtually. There was also an increase in the number of online resources available. Content is easier to disseminate, allowing C.P. Group to provide learning to a much wider audience. How has the impact of the program been measured? To measure success, KPIs include how much was learnt at the time, do learners have and do they apply new skills after the training and do they make an impact with them. C.P. Group use pre and post assessments to measure progress, while measuring the financial impact of its upskilling programs is still work in progress. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Thailand 10,000+ employees Industrial Products Mid-career Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
