--- Page 1 ---
KPMG– Committing to workforce shaping

--- Page 2 ---
KPMG International is a global professional services network, and one of the Big Four accounting organizations. What was the business need? COVID-19 has accelerated and changed the upskilling landscape. Not only are programs now delivered online, but the skills that businesses need are evolving. This is why KPMG advocates a discipline it calls Workforce Shaping : a way to dynamically keep track of and deliver the changes needed in the workforce, including how to define the new skills for the workforce of the future and then go on to build the skills in a timely way. What approaches can organizations take to identify an appropriate upskilling method? As KPMG is one of the biggest learning providers in Europe, they have to be creative in how they deliver learning to such large client populations. Through partnering with Microsoft, they deliver learning programs based on Josh Bersin’s principle of ‘Learning in the flow of work’. Microsoft technology like Teams and Cortana understand what an individual is working on and suggest (‘push’ to the employee) upskilling opportunities such as seminars, videos, blogs, and of course, courses. Through the KPMG Learning Platform the firm creates a rich learning eco-system whereby individual workers, or even their managers, are invited and inspired to learn based on their current and emerging needs. Arising from Workforce Shaping, one approach is to identify ‘no-regrets bets’. Take the example of an insurance company, it is clear that workers will continue to be needed for complex claims, anything simpler can be automated. Therefore, it is a ‘no-regrets bet’ to invest in skills to handle these more complex areas and reskill those employees doing the basic level of claims handling. There is no right answer to how many contingent workers an organization should hire versus how much they should automate. By identifying those ‘no-regrets bets’, an organization can inform and prioritize their skills and training agenda. The most important insight is that there is not one set of decisions with the same level of certainty or risk; the learning agenda needs to be constantly updated. It is through the identification of the level of certainty or risk that learning and development programs can be identified and mapped to the organization's emerging and ever-changing strategic business needs. How can organizations measure the success and impact of a program? Finally, one of the most important obstacles in workforce upskilling is measuring the success of these efforts. One way to measure success is by looking at the wider macro-objectives of the organization, not the performance of individuals; for example, net promoter score or customer satisfaction. Upskilling programs are designed to meet a business need, be it increased customer satisfaction or even increased revenue. Therefore, when measuring the success of a program, it should be these metrics which are measured as they show whether the initiative achieved its desired outcome. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Switzerland 10,000+ employees Professional Services All career stages Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
