--- Page 1 ---
Multiverse – Shunning traditional lecture- based education in favor of applied learning

--- Page 2 ---
Multiverse is a mission driven company, creating a diverse group of future leaders by building an outstanding alternative to university and corporate training. What was the business need? Multiverse supports its 300+ UK and US clients, including Facebook, Morgan Stanley and KPMG, to achieve three common goals: • Diversity: Many organizations find it difficult to find and attract diverse early talent. Multiverse’s outreach program finds these young people, over 50% who are people of color, and 52% women, matching them with roles in clients and providing training pathways for both these new starters and existing diverse employees to access leadership positions. • Future Proof Employees: 74% of CEOs are concerned about the availability of key digital skills, while wanting high quality learning and development to increase retention and employee engagement. Multiverse provides exciting development opportunities for employees at all levels to gain recognized qualifications and skills throughout their careers, focusing on skills that will be relevant for 2030 and beyond. • Bridge Digital Skills Gap: Companies have made significant investments in technology and need to get a return. However, there is often a significant skills gap, with technical skills having a ‘half-life’ of as little as two and a half years, forcing investment in external hires. Multiverse provides on the job upskilling opportunities in digital and data skills, from data literacy for business users and leaders to degree-level Data Science qualifications. Multiverse raised USD$ 44m in its Series B round in February 2021, the largest venture round of any UK EdTech company. This was led by General Catalyst, Google Ventures, Index and Lightspeed and unlocks both the opportunity to change the model for training in the UK and to power US expansion. What program was implemented? Multiverse shuns traditional lecture-based education in favor of applied learning, where apprentices are trained through immediate application and testing in the workplace. Each apprentice benefits from one-to-one coaching from industry experts, which bridges the gap from their content sessions and their particular role, projects and outputs. They also have access to the vibrant Multiverse Community of over 3,000 apprentices, with socials, mentorship and leadership schemes. Multiverse focus on digital skills (such as data analysis and science, software engineering and digital marketing) and key business skills, including project management and people leadership. These programs are continuously developed to include the latest methodologies and technologies. Did the organization face any challenges? Multiverse had to make a rapid move from 100% face-to-face to a remote delivery model during March 2020. A thorough training program on remote delivery for their coaching team in fact increased participant completion and engagement levels, despite tripling the number of apprentices on program. This was recognized by UK’s Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (OFTSED) following a visit in March 2021, judging that Multiverse had made “significant progress” since their last visit - the highest grade available for a monitoring visit. How has the impact of the program been measured? Multiverse has always carefully monitored the success of individual participants: 90% complete, 68% achieve the highest grade and 87% stay long term at their employer. They have recently expanded their Customer Success team to measure the aggregated impact of upskilling the increasingly large number of employees on their programs, using a structured ROI approach. Key tracked benefits include reduced employee churn, consultancy spend, time saved through automation and process improvements, plus revenue generation through improved insights. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey UK 250 - 500 employees Edtech Early career to leadership Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
