--- Page 1 ---
Nestlé – Nestlé needs YOUth initiative

--- Page 2 ---
Nestlé is the world's largest food & beverage company. What was the business need? As a Swiss company, Nestlé has a long tradition of recruiting young people into the workplace and equipping them with the skills they need to build a career. The world of work is rapidly changing as a result of technological innovation, demographic shifts, globalization and climate change, but Nestlé has seen that traineeships, internships and apprenticeships continue to be key in equipping youth with the skills they need and bridging the gap between school and employment. As a result, these schemes can help address youth unemployment while simultaneously contributing to the well-being of those communities in which Nestlé operates and helping secure the skills and competencies that the business needs. Nestlé noted that apprenticeships improve the employability of young people and prepare them for jobs that companies need. What program was implemented? The Nestlé needs YOUth initiative was first launched in Europe in 2013, with the aim of equipping young people with the skills they need to thrive in tomorrow’s workplaces. Since then, Nestlé has transferred its experience with the Swiss dual education system to several countries where there is no tradition of integrating dual training programs in their day-to-day activities as well as working with governments and other business partners in many countries to support the development of dual education systems. The program has three focus areas: • Employment and employability : helping youth secure fulfilling jobs and careers by providing apprenticeships, traineeships and job opportunities around the world • Entrepreneurship : giving support to kickstart and grow businesses, including business mentorship with senior executives from Nestlé, and facilitating access to Nestlé R&D and innovation experts across the world. • Agripreneurship : training and enabling young farmers to develop knowledge and skills and support them in the sustainable management of their farms. Did the organization face any challenges? COVID-19 had a massive impact on Nestlé ’s ways of working: it has been a challenge and an opportunity at the same time. As a consequence, Nestlé has accelerated the digital transformation of the Youth Initiative, in particular, the scaling up online training and digital solutions to ensure the continuity of internship and apprenticeship programs. How has the impact of the program been measured? In 2017, Nestlé relaunched the initiative, and set a target to help 10 million young people access economic opportunities by 2030 ; success is clear through the quantitative data of young people given work opportunities through this program. To date, and against the three focus areas, the initiative has: • Employment and employability : provided 25,000 jobs annually for those aged under 30; offered more than 30,000 apprenticeship and traineeship opportunities worldwide; provided training sessions to more than 2 million young people worldwide and collaborated closely with over 300 partners. • Entrepreneurship : provided CHF2.5 million of funding, supported over 100 entrepreneurs with training and mentoring, and engaged over 100 employees in mentoring • Agripreneurship : provided training to more than 400,000 farmers and identified 20,000 young farmers as potential agripreneurs Nestlé have made reports publicly available measuring the value of the initiative for Nestlé and for society, including in its “Creating Shared Value” report. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Switzerland 10,000+ employees Consumer Products School / Early career Step 1 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
