--- Page 1 ---
OCP Group – Fostering a culture of lifelong learning

--- Page 2 ---
The OCP Group is a Moroccan state-owned phosphate rock miner, phosphoric acid manufacturer and phosphate fertilizer producer. What was the business need? Technology is forcing industries to adapt to digitization, automation and advanced analytics as well as changing customer needs and regulations. Ways of working are changing, meaning expectations are shifting on ideas of flexibility, autonomy and continuous growth. Finally, OCP Group is embarking on new growth focused on proximity to farmers, product diversification and complexity and internationalization of the business. In this changing context, OCP aims to maintain their diverse and dynamic workforce whilst also remaining competitive in the market. Strategic workforce planning (SWP) enables OCP to identify and predict gaps between current skills and those needed for the future and to anticipate required actions to close arising gaps. Based on workshops, analysis of automation and other efficiency drivers and OCP’s strategic business priorities, OCP mapped impacted roles and categorized them in three lists: • Disrupted : Roles highly impacted by automation and efficiency drivers by 2030, with declining demand in terms of volume and expecting a high skills shift • Rising : Current or new roles that are likely to grow in importance and will likely require new hires • Neutral : Roles facing a relatively limited impact from growth, automation or workforce moves, hence requiring ad hoc upskilling Assessment of these lists is dynamic and takes place at least once a year, enabling OCP to continuously monitor the skills gap and modify assumptions based on real use cases. Through upskilling, OCP further hope to leverage green & sustainability imperatives, R&D/ Innovation, advanced automation, artificial intelligence, farmer intimacy, digital services and advanced analytics. To do so, they foster a culture of lifelong learning, promoting the ability to learn continuously as the most important skill for the future. What program was implemented? OCP identified 4 key options to address skills mismatches: (1) Upskill & reskill, (2) redeploy, (3) recruit and (4) outsource. With upskilling & reskilling as strategic priority, OCP launched its own university, the Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, as a vital long-term investment in the business and in the human capital of Morocco. The Group also partners with other leading educational institutions and offers on the job training and other forms of upskilling to suit each learner. Current and retired employees can transfer their expertise through OCP’s “Peer to Peer Learning” program. ”Beyond” is a 2-year curriculum for young talents to develop skills of the future and support OCP's strategy, growth and commitment to progress of employees and the ecosystem. How has the impact of the program been measured? L e arners and trainers participate in regular employee feedback and development conversations to assess progress and ensure constant improvements. Employee engagement is also tracked using pulse surveys, annual (and more regular) assessment of employees’ development and the OCP Group’s initiative ‘1 Pacte’, a collective intelligence initiative to involve OCP employees and ecosystem in shaping the company's strategy. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Morocco 10,000+ employees Chemicals Early career / Mid-career Step 1 Step 2 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
