--- Page 1 ---
Pfizer - Strengthening technical skills of future health professionals in Colombia

--- Page 2 ---
Pfizer is a premier innovative biopharmaceutical company, discovering, developing and providing medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products. What was the business need? Medical education and research work carried out in Colombia is fundamental to Pfizer. The company launched the Scientific Institute Pfizer Colombia (ICPC for its acronym in Spanish) in November 2012 to support new generations of doctors and health professionals by creating means and opportunities for the development and innovation of science and knowledge as Colombia still has a lot of room for growth in terms of educating R&D skills, which are important for pharmaceuticals such as Pfizer. What were the key activities? Overall, through ICPC, Pfizer Colombia’s medical area has the objective of strengthening the technical skills of future health professionals, and the quantity of high- quality medical research in the country, through three cornerstones: • Knowing Pfizer: focuses on showcasing Pfizer as a suitable option for internships and residencies for medical professionals and students. • Promoting education and medical research : includes events and programs in alliance with the government and academia. • Recognizing excellence : supports outstanding professionals and seeks to contribute to the retention of great talents in Colombia to avoid brain drain. Who was the target group / audience? The Program is primarily aimed at young doctors and health professionals. For instance, for cornerstone 1) Knowing Pfizer, the company has agreements with certain universities to accept internships at Pfizer as valid in their academic program, and to enable spaces for students that are in their last semesters of medicine or clinical pharmacology to know about Pfizer and consider it as an alternative to the usual internships. In the case of cornerstone 2) Promoting education and medical research, the events’ audience is the health sector in general. For the program named “Young Researchers and Innovators in Medicine” which grants scholarships/internships in specialized research centers, the target are young researchers up to 28 years of age. For the last cornerstone 3) Recognizing excellence, the ICPC hosts an award that recognizes outstanding students and professionals, however, the selection of recognitions is carried out independently by the scientific associations and educational entities to which health professionals belong. How has the impact of the program been measured? Since its opening, the ICPC has impacted more than 50 entities and has benefited 27,600 health professionals. Just in 2020, 6,904 health professionals benefitted from the Initiative. Since 2012: 1) Knowing Pfizer beneficiaries: 24 medicine students, 10 pharmacology residents. 2) Promoting education and medical research: 150 health education events impacting 27,143 health professionals. 3) Recognizing excellence: 62 internships, 298 educational scholarships, 34 authors from 6 publications recognized, 29 graduated medicine students recognized. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Colombia 100 – 500 employees Pharmaceuticals Early career Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
