--- Page 1 ---
Pirelli – Upskilling employees to develop more innovative and sustainable products

--- Page 2 ---
What was the business need? The automotive industry is facing an unprecedented evolution triggered by key technology-driven disruptive trends: electrification of vehicles, connected and autonomous vehicles and Mobility-as-a-Service. This scenario presented opportunities for Pirelli in terms of product innovation and development of new applications, while also bringing challenges in terms of reducing the time-to-market of new products. To stay ahead of changes coming with this new scenario, Pirelli has been investing in digital tools and developing new skills and capabilities in the organization, that enable development of more innovative and sustainable products in the most agile way. What programs have been implemented? Pirelli has established a method for constantly updating the requirements of employees’ key competences and quickly ensuring its wide deployment throughout the company. After dividing the organization into roles and professional families, every year the key competences of each professional are reviewed and updated with respect to the company’s main strategic guidelines. The company’s key competences are then distributed and trained via the global learning framework which is composed of four pillars: • Academies : these handle technical training for professional families. There are 10 Professional Academies which all have a central design and a local delivery system, through a network of certified internal and external trainers. • School of Management : focuses on developing behavioral and managerial skills. This also has a central design with central deployment for executives and local deployment for middle management. The School focuses on a set of key behaviors which the company links to performance. • Local educational initiatives : address specific local needs, e.g. compliance and compulsory training. • Global activities: these activities respond to international and cross functional needs and promote awareness of global guidelines with respect to local differences. In case of significant discontinuities in terms of new competences required by employees, a specific inter-functional and strategic Project Team is set up to analyze and design changes foreseen for a process or system, define new roles involved and make changes to existing ones, and to identify new sets of competences. The relevant Professional Academy is involved by developing an appropriate and specific new learning action plan. Did the organization face any challenges? The initial impact of COVID-19 brought great discontinuity for Pirelli. Nevertheless, even an emergency as big as this brought significant outcomes. For example, the deployment of digital workplace applications (e.g. Microsoft Office 365) for all employees, originally expected to last two years to cover all countries, was dramatically accelerated and carried out globally in five weeks. Throughout the process, employees were supported with a dedicated training campaign. When discontinuities such as this one happen, the Pirelli Global Learning Model provides strong support while all the Professional Academies are highly involved in adapting to the change, reshaping the learning offer and relaunching it in an accessible way. How has the impact of the program been measured? Pirelli measures learning effectiveness using the globally acknowledged Kirpatrick method, which establishes 4 levels of learning measurements depending on the objectives of the learning program. Level 1 (“satisfaction”) and Level 2 (“learning”) are applied to all programs. Level 3 (“impact on performance”) and Level 4 (“impact on company results”) are applied only for programs on a wide scale and/or impactful on roles or company processes and/or linked with a specific formal competence certification. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Italy 10,000+ employees Automotive Early career to leadership Pirelli was founded in Milan in 1872 and today stands as a global brand known for its cutting-edge technology, passion for innovation and production excellence in high-end consumer tires. Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
