--- Page 1 ---
PwC – How PwC is upskilling 284,000 people

--- Page 2 ---
PwC UK is a professional services firm, and one of the Big Four accounting organizations. What was the business need? PwC recognized that were huge societal changes taking place meaning that the skills they had within the organization were not necessarily the skills the firm needed for the future. Disruption was happening all around PwC – in the firm and within their clients. PwC’s clients expected the firm to leverage technology to deliver more value and the firm’s employees understood the need to have new skills to remain relevant to clients. PwC wanted to become a digital business and understood that digital businesses develop products and use different tools. The firm recognized that upskilling employees was not only going to drive business benefits for clients, but it was also going to drive a much better employee experience. They also knew that they needed their teams across the world to be more comfortable with emerging technology, especially considering that the pace of technology wasn’t slowing down. That required the firm to start a journey of lifelong learning. This wasn’t about making data scientists of everybody; this was about a different way of working, changing the culture and changing the way that people work and interact with each other. What program was implemented? The firm’s first steps in upskilling were to launch a program called “Digitising the Network”. The program started with 55,000 people in the US, and then expanded to all 284,000 employees around the world. PwC ensured the program was inclusive and reflected the diversity and the culture of its global workforce. To keep it interesting and fun, the approach to learning was multi-faceted, including: bite-sized learning, classroom learning, a digital fitness app, social learning and gamification. PwC believed if they could give high quality learning in small bites, they could deliver a remarkable experience for employees, which would translate into a great experience for the firm’s clients. PwC employees now use their skills to upskill youth around the world and as of October 2020 they had helped to upskill nearly three million people. Additionally, PwC and UNICEF are collaborating to help upskill millions of young people around the world. The collaboration supports Generation Unlimited, a multi sector partnership aimed at helping 1.8 billion young people transition from school to work by 2030 . Did the organization face any challenges? When the COVID-19 pandemic began, the Digitising the Network program went from premise-based digital academies to virtual digital academies in four weeks. It was clear to PwC that their investments in digital upskilling made them well prepared which was evidenced through the results. The feedback scores from the virtual academies were higher than the scores received from the previous physical academies. It was clear the workforce had become more agile as they were able to quickly respond to new and changing technologies. Furthermore, PwC has created financial performance opportunities that give them investment capacity to keep growing the technical capabilities of their people and the technology services of the firm. How has the impact of the program been measured? The program has unlocked the power of innovation in the hands of PwC employees. PwC's people were opting in because it enabled them to change work on the ground. The firm started to see: improvements in processes, hours being saved, and perhaps most importantly in the energy of the workforce. In the first 18 months, PwC went from zero employee-led assets to over 6,000 assets, which have been downloaded more than 3 million times by employees around the world. As a result, PwC has been able to redirect over 7 million hours of work to higher value activities. The organization has built on the skills, mindset and behaviors that enable employees to adopt the next generation of technology and to improve their ability to adapt to new situations. At the same time, PwC has embraced data driven decision making. The firm is making smarter decisions for themselves, bringing better insights to their clients and has embedded a culture of lifelong learning. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey Global 10,000+ employees Professional Services Various Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
