--- Page 1 ---
Zurich – Skills academies to meet future workforce needs

--- Page 2 ---
What was the business need? Eighteen months ago, Zurich in the UK analyzed its workforce utilizing AI analytics platform Faethm to understand the potential impact of technology on the future of its workforce. It identified the skills that would be in demand and where roles - predominately in areas such as robotics, data and cyber – could potentially go unfilled over the next five years. This exercise helped Zurich plan its strategic response to ensure it has the skills and capabilities needed to continue delivering for its customers. Through understanding the impact of technology on skills gaps, along with a commitment to work sustainability and developing its people, Zurich has created a 5-point strategy centered on building its workforce needs for the future: • Upskilling for the whole organization • Intensive reskilling for in demand roles • Mobilization of internal talent to enable greater career mobility • Targeted graduate, intern and apprentice early career programs • Focus on skills and potential in the recruitment process What programs have been implemented? Zurich in the UK has developed a number of skills academies including an Automation Academy, a Data Academy and DevOps Academy. Its Data Academy launched 15 months ago was an industry first and was followed more recently by an Automation Academy. Zurich’s Continuous Improvement and Automation team deliver the Automation Academy. It’s a powerful proposition combining participants knowledge of their business area, processes and importantly customers, with automation skills. The overall aim is to reduce time spent on repetitive tasks, freeing up people to focus on more value added and enriching activities. People are encouraged to sign up if they are interested in taking part in one of the academies and will be able to apply their learning in their day-to-day role. The Automation Academy is funded by Zurich's education budget, while the Data and DevOps Academies utilize part of the apprenticeship levy as the learning is aligned to apprenticeship standards. Did the organization face any challenges? One challenge Zurich faced has been putting in place effective measures to support people working at home and learning in isolation during lockdown. Despite this, Zurich has been successful in delivering all of its usual programs and apprenticeships virtually. This has involved providing coaching and mentoring support to complement what already delivered by teams and managers. How has the impact of the program been measured? Zurich measure success in a number of ways. For the Automation Academy for example, Zurich assesses how automation has improved service for the company’s customers. Other indicators include the number of employees engaging with re-skilling, upskilling and redeployment opportunities, which indicate how successful Zurich is in developing new skills internally rather than recruiting from outside. Location Size of organization Industry Learning stage journey United Kingdom 4,000+ employees Insurance Mid-career Zurich Insurance Group (Zurich) is a leading multi-line insurer that serves its customers in global and local markets. Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 CHRO Guide: Skills strategies for a sustainable world of work
