--- Page 1 ---
Organization Name: CIRFOOD Industry: Commercial and collective catering Number of employees: 12’734 Annual revenue: € 434 million Website: www.cirfood.com CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS CASE STUDIES Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? CIRFOOD has chosen to operate as a business with a high level of social responsibility: handling people’s diet to ensure that everyone has the enjoyment and quality of proper nutrition, and improving people’s lifestyles and well-being while respecting the planet’s natural resources. With this goal in mind, CIRFOOD produces thousands of meals every day, paying great attention to the raw materials used and to preventing waste while adhering to the principles of the Circular Economy. Adopting a measuring tool, like the CTI framework, helps assess the transition process from a linear to a circular model, supporting companies in establishing strategies to improve circularity. Key challenges At CIRFOOD, we decided to test out the CTI framework and dedicated online tool to analyze a school catering service. We were interested in finding out whether the changes designed for the service, planned with a view to having a lower environmental impact, could also have positive results in terms of better circularity. We started by using data already available from an LCA. The greatest challenge was to gather information on the characteristics of certain input materials (eg. whether or not they come from recycling supply chains) and the exact destination of output materials. Solutions This framework helped us expand our point of view on circularity. In particular, we discovered how important it is to understand the source of certain materials. The close involvement of suppliers is needed to obtain this information. In fact, while we took it for granted that certain materials we use are virgin, we discovered that they are actually not. In order to have an accurate circularity assessment, it is essential to have the most detailed information possible on the quantity and characteristics of the resources extracted (material, energy and water), used and released back into the system. Results The assessment confirmed that the planned changes in the catering service would have also led to improved circularity. It allowed us to map out flows of materials and energy, identifying the components with the highest value in the service, while assessing them in a concrete, tangible way. For example, we received confirmation of how circularity would improve by increasing the volume of raw materials from sustainable agriculture, by using reusable flatware, renewable energy and ensuring the total consumption of meals to reduce waste. We now have to continue on our path to an increasingly circular service with the lowest impact possible. Looking at the Agenda 2030 goals, it is clear how food plays a key role for achieving sustainable development. It is a resource to eradicate poverty and to improve health, well-being and inclusion for people. But it is also a problem for the waste created and the amount of CO 2 released. Thanks to the WBSCD, we have been able to use the CTI Framework to analyze our catering services and to measure their circularity. Maria Elena Manzini, CIRFOOD CSR Manager
