--- Page 1 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 1 K W p c o a d s F p i p i l COMPANY IN BRIEF Based in Chile, CMPC produces and markets pulp, packaging, sanitary products and tissue paper. It has operations in 11 countries and employs 20,000 people. CMPC manages 1.3 million hectares of forests. CHALLENGE In Brazil, solid waste most commonly ends up in landfills. The decomposition process can lead to leakage – contaminating soil and close water sources – and releases greenhouse gases (GHGs) into the atmosphere. INITIATIVE Through this initiative, CMPC converts over 99% of the industrial residues from its pulping process into 15 new products, such as organic fertilizers, egg cartons and shoe insoles. Each year, around 600,000 tons of waste receive a new life. PARTNERSHIPS CMPC has implemented the initiative in partnership with VIDA, a local company specializing in solid waste recycling, with which CMPC shared the initial infrastructure investment costs. Additionally, CMPC has engaged universities and independent environmentalists to ensure the initiative’s sustainability. IMPERATIVES This initiative diverts and reuses 600,000 tons of waste annually, thereby reducing GHG emissions and pollution. In addition, maximizing fiber-use efficiency indirectly contributes to reducing land- use tensions and the recycling facilities contribute to job creation in local communities. Valorization of manufacturing waste Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain

--- Page 2 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 2 MORE INFORMATION • CMPC Brasil COP 26 case study • CMPC Brasil Circular Economy Hub • Vida Produtos no Rio Grande do Sul Contact: rodrigo.gonzalezm@cmpc.cl WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group is the global platform where leading business in the forest products sector build and share solutions to sustainable development. BUSINESS CASE The initiative maximizes resource efficiency in the pulping process and generates revenue streams through the valorization of waste for the production of new products. The positive outcomes for nature, climate and people strengthen CMPC’s social license to operate. ADVOCACY CMPC advocates for the growth of the circular bioeconomy on the global stage, partnering with WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group and the World Economic Forum, as well as domestically by working with the public-private Clean Production Agreement led by Acción Empresas and the Chilean Agency for Sustainability and Climate Change. The company has presented the initiative at several technical events and forums such as the Watershed Management Committee. NEXT STEPS CMPC is expanding its operations in Brazil and aims to maintain its high level of recycling (above 99%) with the increased production volume.
