--- Page 1 ---
Organization Name: Auping Industry: Bedding and sleep products Number of employees: 350 Annual revenue (2020): EUR 88 million Website: www.auping.com CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS CASE STUDIES Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? For more than 130 years, Auping has been designing the very best ways of sleeping and resting. And for good reason. We believe that a well-rested world, is a better world. Every single bed is made with care and attention to details, the environment and the future. We aim to have a fully circular product offer, according to the definitions of the CTI framework, by 2030 at the latest. To meet this goal, our progress needs to be measurable and verifiable according to relevant parameters. We chose CTI to standardize the way we measure circularity. We have used CTI to analyze our beds and will do the same for our mesh bases and mattresses. Key challenges We started our CTI assessment by analyzing the circularity of our current product lines, taking a representative size and type for all beds, mattresses and textile accessory products. In our experience, the biggest challenge has been obtaining reliable data to fill into the CTI dedicated online tool . A circularity score comes with transparency of data sources, which requires careful collection and management of parameters such as recycled content. Solutions Our solution to this challenge has been to organize a system of circular standards between ourselves and our suppliers, which will guarantee reliability of data and provide transparency of scores and information. A crucial insight that we were able to obtain through CTI, however, was that much of the existing circular inflow data lacks reliable justification. In the upcoming years, we will be sure to track and justify thoroughly this kind of information. Results Each product line requires a specific strategy to improve the circularity scores, which we are currently defining, based on the initial baseline assessed via CTI. For various products, such as our Evolve mattress, we rely on a take back system. As a consequence, the % circular outflow of this product is already at a high level. Therefore, we have identified the % circular inflow as the largest circularity improvement potential is the overall circular performance for this product. At Auping, we are working towards a fully circular product assortment. Designing out waste, setting up service business models and developing reuse and recycling infrastructure are keys for success. The insights gained from the CTI framework help us steer our research and innovation efforts. CTI provides transparent insights about existing products, which can be evaluated and improved. In addition, new products can be more explicitly assessed for circularity during the development process, contributing to a faster transition to full circularity. Geert Doorlag, Researcher, Royal Auping
