--- Page 1 ---
CAMPAIGN AND TRANSPARENCY MEASURES SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION To increase awareness of sustainable mobility practices, many businesses put in place mobility campaigns or other transparency measures. Such initiatives make employees aware of available mobility options and improve understanding of the benefits these can bring. The campaign and transparency measures used by WBCSD member companies are diverse. Some members have organized entertaining, one-day regional sustainable mobility challenges with participation from key local stakeholders. Others have introduced car-free days or created venues to showcase existing mobility options, like e-bikes or shared vehicles. Finally, some participate in challenges organized by third parties, where employees and teams can register and get prizes for lowering their carbon emissions. Third-party challenges have a strong aspirational effect and, depending on the length of the challenge, can be tools for permanent behavior shift. As part of transparency measures, businesses can continuously monitor the mobility behavior of employees and provide them a monthly dashboard with their individual impact through their mobility (for example, emissions, calories consumed, travel expenses, travel time can be included in this dashboard). Running mobility surveys can be part of a campaign strategy since the survey can identify knowledge gaps. Objective pursued: Improve awareness and adoption, improve business attractiveness, community creation, reduce carbon footprint, improve air quality, reduce travel times and congestion, increase active mobility, improve sustainable behavior. Context: These measures are needed in any context to drive a sustainable mobility agenda. By continuously analyzing the local context and knowledge gaps using mobility surveys, campaign and transparency measures can be designed to suit a targeted stakeholder group well. Main benefits Sustainable mobility campaign and transparency measures increase adoption of green practices, make sustainability more visible and actionable to employees and build community through employee engagement programs. Cost element : Dependent on the campaign and transparency actions or tools adopted and the needs they seek to address. Costs can be very low when partnering with solution providers who can showcase their mobility solutions to employees. Some campaigns that track effects show a 20-30% reduction in participant’s travel expenses. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Companies that mobilize employees to engage in a mobility campaign can face low turnout or a lack of interest. This can be managed through continuous reminders or positive messaging. The importance of sustainable mobility to a business can be signaled, as a campaign measure, by ensuring senior management are a part of campaign programs and transparent in their personal involvement in driving sustainable mobility. Metrics for impact evaluation The impact made through a campaign program is difficult to measure without a mode of tracking such as using surveys, questionnaires or apps that track mobility behavior. Campaigns and transparency measures’ impact is best measured as part of an integrated mobility policy. Our members with campaign and transparency measures
