--- Page 1 ---
COMPANY BIKE SHARING SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Through bike sharing schemes, businesses can make bikes available for employees. Both the technology used, the bike ownership and the conditions for the sharing vary. Employees can have access to a dedicated bike for a given period (from some hours to a year) or a bike pool, where bikes are booked for less than a day. Businesses can own the bikes and make them available, or partner with service providers. The bikes can be reserved to employees only or for the wider public and usage can be reserved for business-only purposes or also for private use. Access to the bikes can be free of charge, or employees can be requested to pay a fee and/or make a deposit to access the service. Bike sharing schemes will have higher success rates if infrastructure for biking is provided, such as storage for bikes, personal protective equipment and showers or changing rooms. Objective pursued: Reduce carbon footprint and pollution; reduce energy consumption and vehicle emissions; reduce travel cost; improve business attractiveness and talent retention; reduce parking infrastructure demand; improve employees’ health and well-being; increase accessibility. Context: To reduce accident risks and encourage adoption, the site should be easily accessible by bike, ideally through bike lanes and with biking infrastructure in place. Main benefits Corporate bike sharing offers transport flexibility, reduces energy consumption and congestion, promotes societal awareness by making a visual statement on the safety and convenience of biking, especially in contexts where it is not common practice. The measure has health benefits as cycling helps keep an active lifestyle. Businesses can also achieve reduced travel costs and minimize the need for parking space. Cost element: Dependent on complementary management systems adopted. Costs can be reduced by having bike-sharing systems that are shared with the wider public. In some cases, these bike-sharing schemes can even become a revenue source. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Companies that introduce bike sharing may face challenges such as low adoption rates by employees. This can be managed by making available storage and changing facilities, through positive messaging and through campaigns and events aimed at letting employees try the bike sharing systems, and also by making the bikes available for leisure activities. Another concern linked to this measure is employee safety: finding the right insurance and communicating on adequate protection gear goes a long way to reduce this concern. Finally, bike sharing will have greater adoption if biking is integrated into the company’s culture by having leaders in the company promoting the mode and being flexible on the dress code. Metrics for impact evaluation Impact made through corporate bike-sharing systems can be determined through a comparative analysis of emission reductions, number of employee signups, employee satisfaction analysis and travel costs saved. Evaluations can be done using questionnaires or mobility surveys. Our members providing bike sharing schemes
