--- Page 1 ---
CASE STUDIES CIRCULAR TRANSITION INDICATORS Key challenges Transitioning to a circular economy model requires companies to understand and control all materials and processes used in production. At DSM, we use the framework to track material flows per business group. One of the challenges we faced is in the collection of data on these flows. While we are familiar with collecting production data and financial figures, we do not currently collect ‘circularity’ data (product recyclability for example). Solutions This framework helped us to engage the organization and have a conversation about circularity with different businesses and functional departments within DSM. Analyzing our CTI ‘scores’ required new ways of thinking across the organization. Results By analyzing material flows per business group, we can provide our businesses with insights into their status as they adopt circular business practices and ultimately seize circular business opportunities. We believe that the circularity gaps and opportunities need to be reviewed in the context of the type of industry, region and product-application and position in the value-chain. Understanding the different challenges within contexts will help businesses to come up with the most relevant circular interventions or business models to apply for their challenges. DSM is dedicated to securing the future availability of natural resources and unlocking more value from the limited resources available. On circularity, we focus on improving our own impact, enabling customers and partners to deliver more circular solutions, and advocating for the transition to a circular economy. The circular metrics framework is a first step in helping our company to set a baseline and monitor progress on the transition towards a circular economy. Why are circular metrics interesting to your company? The world is only 9% circular and the trend is not reversing. Accelerating the transition towards a circular economy is a value- chain effort: it allows our company to track progress and steer towards improvement. By applying the Circular Transition Indicators, we can identify both gaps and opportunities in our value chain. Roy Vissers Global Circular Economy Project Lead, DSM. Organization name: Royal DSM Number of employees: 23,000 Industry: Chemicals Annual turnover: €10 billion Website: www.dsm.com
