--- Page 1 ---
EAT-Lancet Commission report - summary brief for business Our future depends on our ability to create a food system that supports healthy people and a healthy planet. Current food systems are outstripping the resources of the planet, while diets are resulting in global health crises of both over - and under-nutrition. All this will be amplified by continued population growth and changes in dietary habits. The independent EAT-Lancet Commission report, Our Food in the Anthropocene: Healthy Diets from Sustainable Food Systems , is the first to connect scientific targets for global healthy diets with those for sustainable food production. Aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement, the EAT-Lancet report outlines how to deliver a sustainable and healthy food system for 10 billion people within planetary boundaries by 2050. Achieving these targets will require an unprecedented system transformation, not dissimilar – yet more complex – than the changes we are now seeing in the global energy system. In order to lead the transformation and secure continued business success, companies in the food systems need to come prepared. • More than 820 million people still lack enough food, and many more consume too much food of lower quality. • Today, food systems use 40% of global land; produce 30% of global emissions and use 70% of freshwater withdrawals. Land conversion for food productionis the largest driver of biodiversity loss. • The food system is key to optimizing human health and environmental sustainability. A sustainable global food system by 2050 means: - sufficient, healthy food for all with no additional land use conversion for food, - protection of biodiversity, - reduced water use, - decreased nitrogen and phosphorus loss to waterways, - net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, - and significantly lower levels of methane and nitrous oxide emissions. • A move towards a diet rich in plant-based foods and with fewer animal sources will lead to both improved health and environmental benefits. However, the transition pathways to such diets need to be culture and context specific. • Nearly 30% of all food, and up to 50% of all fruits and vegetables, is lost or wasted. Halving food loss at the production side and food waste at the consumption side also decreases water use by about 13%. • The global scientific targets published by the EAT-Lancet Commission on dietary shifts, sustainable food production and food loss and waste reduction will allow business to create science- based solutions that can shape the food system transformation. It will also enable governments to set regional-and country- specific targets and regulations. What should you know? The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is working with more than 80 companies to develop a shared ambition for the food systems. Achieving our Healthy People, Healthy Planet vision will require leadership action and wide-scale deployment of business solutions across the value chain of nutrition and health, livelihoods and human rights, biodiversity and ecosystems, and climate mitigation and resilience. EAT-Lancet Commission report Summary brief for business

--- Page 2 ---
EAT-Lancet Commission report - summary brief for business Business leadership is essential to achieve food system transformation The EAT-Lancet Commission report requires a shift towards healthy diets, sustainable food production and, at least, halving food loss and waste… all at the same time. Delivering against these targets will bring huge benefits: the Business and Sustainable Development Commission states that a sustainable transformation of food systems could generate USD $2.3 trillion of new value and provide up to 800 million jobs globally by 2030. While each company can adjust strategies and innovation to position itself towards the targets, no one company can effectively address the systemic challenge required by the targets alone. We must collaborate across the value chain to achieve urgent and inclusive transformation, partnering with the public sector and civil society to ensure decisions meet community needs and reflect regional and cultural preferences. And with more than a third of the world’s population relying on agriculture for its livelihood we must keep people at the centre in ways that are equitable and responsible. There are huge opportunities over the next two years to advance food systems transformation for a shared Healthy People, Healthy Planet vision. But business as usual simply won’t get us there. WBCSD has built business solutions with you to ensure we, can accelerate the food system transformation. Promote food products contributing to healthy and sustainable diets • Embrace a diverse and sustainable mix of proteins , increasing diverse plant-based protein sources. • Expand and standardize food labeling to include information on the health and sustainability implications of products, including suggested serving sizes and their environmental costs. • Drive transparent marketing practices that promote the consumption of healthy and sustainable foods. • Develop strategies for making healthy ingredients and food more accessible and affordable, especially in emerging markets. Produce and supply food sustainably • Decrease GHG emissions across operations and supply chains by, for example, using natural climate solutions, no till, low till, and precision-agriculture technology. • Increase water use efficiency with improved water management and technology. • Improve animal farming practices by scaling up sustainable feeds and using diverse, locally-relevant integrated production systems. • Support farmers in this transition with training and development, grants and recognition. • Align business strategies and R&D to provide nutritious and affordable foods sourced sustainably. Halve food loss and waste across your value chain in line with the SDGs • Use the Food Loss and Waste Protocol to set a benchmark and quantify food loss and waste in terms of nutrition and environmental impacts. • Build business capabilities through education and training. • Help consumers reduce their food waste with ideas and apps for using leftovers, portion sizes. • Deploy logistics solutions and technology to improve storage, and smart packaging solutions. What can business do? Business solutions Additional resources Consumption Production & distribution Supply chain • Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives like the Food and Land Use Coalition (FOLU) and the Food System Dialogues that foster greater interaction to unlock new models of sustainable nutrition within planetary boundaries. • Download the full EAT-Lancet Commission report or summary . • The EAT-Lancet Commission scientific targets for healthy diets and sustainable food production are available here . • More information on WBCSD’s Food and Nature projects is available here .
