--- Page 1 ---
Developing talent and inspiring behavior Responding to business innovation demands, creating a learning organization and bridging generation gaps are the main challenges of managing talent and developing human capital. Tackling these challenges while reinforcing the organizational culture call for disruption of conventional training approaches. Pulp and paper industry processes are highly specific and it can be very difficult to find people in the labor market with an adequate set of competences to meet the business needs. Moreover, the need to transfer knowledge, improve key skills and retain talent, to develop personal and professional potential of young managers, provide career opportunities and ensure succession for key functions and business sustainability, are some of today’s challenges. To build skills across its workforce and prepare its future leaders, in 2016 the Navigator Company launched an innovative Learning Center with tailor-made training programs, supported by partnerships with some of the best academic institutions. In December 2018, a digital platform, with its own brand and identity, was set up to modernize the Learning Center, making it more accessible and flexible. “Learn anytime, anywhere” is its motto. This 360° portal offers four types of training: formal in-class learning, digital learning, peer- to-peer learning and self-learning. All courses are now available for all employees on computers, tablets and mobile phones. Courses are bilingual and training programs can be customized by the employee, based on individual needs, preferences and convenience. The portal gives all employees the same opportunities: from head offices to “shop floor” operators and international offices, also being blind to language, gender, geography and generation. Being a certified training entity according to Portuguese Law, Navigator provides the employees with external recognition of the acquired competence, with benefits for present and future job opportunities. In 2018, over 560 training actions were carried out, with 14,305 attendances, corresponding to 202,962 hours and 3,070 employees involved. The Learning Centre fosters exponential performance of Navigator’s workforce and inspires their behavior in the sense of creating a Learning Organization pillared on its corporate Values. Transforming the Workforce Launching the platform: “Learn anytime, anywhere” as motto to incentivize users
