--- Page 1 ---
PRINCIPLES: Relevance, Rigor, Replicability, Consistency 01 Get started 02 Define the objective 03 Scope the assessment 04 Determine the impacts and/or dependencies 05 Measure impact drivers and/or dependencies 06 Measure changes in the state of natural capital 07 Value impacts and/or dependencies 08 Interpret and test the results 09 Take action Why should you conduct a natural capital assessment? What is the objective of your assessment? What is an appropriate scope to meet your objective? Which impacts and/ or dependencies are material? How can your impact drivers and/or dependencies be measured? What are the changes in the state and trends of natural capital related to your business impacts and/or dependencies? What is the value of your natural capital impacts and/or dependencies? How can you interpret, validate and verify your assessment process and your results? How will you apply your results and integrate natural capital into existing processes? APPLY What next? MEASURE AND VALUE How? Step Questions this will answer Stage SCOPE What? FRAME Why? Helping practitioners from the forest products sector integrate natural capital into their business decision-making. Every day risks and opportunities stem from a business’ relationship with its natural environment. These represent hidden costs and benefits that need to be incorporated into business decision-making and treated with the same diligence as financial capital. In the forest products sector business activities impact and depend on many services provided by nature such as soil nutrient cycling, water provision and purification, and climate regulation. Failing to account for these services would be leaving value on the table. This guide offers a common framework for the sector to measure and value its impacts and dependencies on natural capital across the full value chain. A clearer understanding of this complex relationship with nature will inform better decision-making, strategy and communication. This is the world’s first generally accepted natural capital assessment guidance for the forest products sector to accompany the Natural Capital Protocol. The Guide is the fruit of an extensive engagement process with key stakeholders from across all forested continents. What is the value of nature to your business? Comparing the impacts of two different forest restoration options for a landscape destroyed by fire in Chile. Demonstrating the benefits to biodiversity of well-managed forest landscapes in Portugal. Assessing opportunities and risks linked to natural capital in the bleaching chemicals value chain in Brazil. Eight leading businesses have pilot tested the guide and shared their experience. Comparing sustainable forest management with other land-use scenarios for a tropical forest concession in the Congo Basin. Assessing the long- term impacts from historically large-scale logging operations on fish population at a river catchment level in Russia. Valuing the impacts of understory plants on human health in indigenous-owned forests in Washington State. Assessing ecosystem services of investor-owned forest plantations in New Zealand. Assessing the environmental benefits of cork-based products over alternatives in the wine and construction sectors. Attaching a value to water at three integrated pulp and paper mills, as an input for strategic decision-making. The Natural Capital Protocol is a standardized decision-making framework to identify, measure and value direct and indirect impacts and dependencies on natural capital. WBCSD’S FOREST SOLUTIONS GROUP The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a global, CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses and partners working together to accelerate the transition to a sustainable world. WBCSD helps its member companies become more successful and sustainable by focusing on the maximum positive impact for shareholders, the environment and societies. WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group is the global platform for the forest sector value chain. Building and sharing business solutions to lead sustainable development in the forest products sector. FSG’s mission is to advance the bio-economy and a thriving forest sector that sustains healthy productive forests and people’s well- being. www.wbcsd.org/Projects/ Forest-Solutions-Group THE NATURAL CAPITAL COALITION The Natural Capital Coalition is a global multi- stakeholder collaboration that brings together leading global initiatives and organizations to harmonize and develop natural capital approaches. The Coalition is made up of over 280 leading organisations who have united under a common vision of a world where business conserves and enhances natural capital. www. naturalcapitalcoalition.org Download the guide and read the case studies at: https://www.wbcsd. org/Projects/Forest- Solutions-Group PRICE- WATERHOUSE- COOPERS PwC led the technical development of the guide, leveraging their experience delivering natural capital valuation projects, their role in the development of the Natural Capital Protocol, and their work with the forest products sector. www.pwc.com/totalimpact Forest Products Sector Guide to the Natural Capital Protocol
