--- Page 1 ---
How are we making a difference? Summary progress report Q3–2019 Global attention is increasingly focused on our food and land use systems. Agribusinesses represent over $5 trillion¹ in global trade and support the livelihoods of 2.5 billion² people. Agriculture has also been clearly linked with the world’s unprecedented challenges: addressing climate change and biodiversity loss whilst providing food and resources for a growing population. Input into emerging guidelines and standards Member of Alliance for Water Stewardship Agriculture Working Group Landscape Standard (‘Landscale’) Advisory Board: an emerging tool to help drive landscape-scale sustainability CEO Water Mandate’s Guide for Companies on Setting Site Water Targets Informed By Catchment Context WaterAid Guidance on WASH Thought leadership Producer Perspective on EAT-Lancet Report, published online March 2019 Published Action Briefs with four independent partners on Rural Labour, Landscape Approaches, Water Stewardship, Cross-Sector Collaboration Outreach and engagement Global Landscapes Forum, Bonn 2018 Innovation Forum Future of Food, Sustainable Landscapes, 2018 and 2019 Intergovernmental Forum on Mining and Committee on Food Security, 2018 World Water Week, 2018 and Alliance for Water Stewardship Forum, 2019 Strengthening Advocacy It is essential that those with greatest exposure and influence operating closest to the farmgate are positioned to inform emerging regulation and new sourcing requirements. The Global Agribusiness Alliance (GAA) is a multi-commodity and cross-geography CEO-led platform for supply-side advocacy and action. Its mandate is to advocate for the positive role of agribusiness in society by designing and demonstrating positive solutions to our shared challenges. GAA focuses on four areas: • sustainable landscapes • rural livelihoods • water stewardship • food loss – resource efficiency. We partner with a number of groups including the World Resources Institute, IUCN, EcoAgriculture Partners, Fauna and Flora International, the Alliance for Water Stewardship. Achievements to-date include: Water Stewardship Action Learning Projects Implemented with the Alliance for Water Stewardship at two member sites in India with Phoenix (rice) and in Indonesia with Halcyon Agri (rubber) Food Loss/Resource Efficiency Individual company implementation support with the World Resources Institute Guide to Respecting Human Rights Advancing human rights policy and practice in the agribusiness sector: a toolkit for member company internal training and implementation Agri-SME Digital Finance Platform Demo digital platform to strengthen rural partners and suppliers Community of Practice Seven in-person workshops to foster peer learning, knowledge sharing and joint problem-solving and eight landscape partnership case studies plus collective learnings Scaling Action 1 Goedde, L., Horii, M., and Sanghvi, S. (2015). Pursuing the global opportunity in food and agribusiness . McKinsey & Company. 2 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. (2016). Increasing the resilience of agricultural livelihoods .

--- Page 2 ---
Summary progress report Q3–2019 How are we making a difference? www.wbcsd.org/globalagribusinessalliance Global Agribusiness Alliance, World Business Council for Sustainable Development info@globalagribusinessalliance.com www.wbcsd.org/globalagribusinessalliance Geneva Maison de la Paix, Chemin Eugaène-Rigot 1202 Genève, Switzerland +41 22 839 31 00 London Mansion House, 33 Queen Street London EC4R 1BR, United Kingdom +44 7557 163 365 Singapore 2 Science Park Drive, #01-03 Ascent 118222 Singapore, Singapore +65 9863 2945 A B A GAA workstream contribution B GAA member company case studies Leadership team visibly and consistently demonstrates understanding and commitment Develop ongoing and meaningful relationships with stakeholders Transparently and regularly report performance Monitor and evaluate progress to accurately capture data Benchmark policies with regulatory/buyer requirements, voluntary standards Improve traceability Strengthen relations with local supply-chain stakeholders Map supply-chains, identify high-risk operations Develop monitoring and evaluation metrics and process Set targets and goals Develop/review sustainability policies and standards Establish strong internal governance including C-suite accountability Build the business case including clear direction and strategic intent Identify priority Sustainable Development Goals Assess material environmental and social risks (U.a) (U.b) (U.c) (U.d) (P.a) (P.b) (P.c) (SC.c) (SC.d) (SC.b) (SC.a) (M.a) (M.b) (S.b) (S.a) (S) (U) (M) (P) (SC) A L I G N M E N T S U P P L Y - C H A I N M A N A G E P L A N A N D U N D E R S T A N D R E L E V A N C E A N D U R G E N C Y M A N A G E P E R F O R M A N C E S T R E N G T H E N E X T E R N A L R E L A T I O N S GAA has two strategic imperatives and has developed tools to support their implementation: Facilitate continuous improvement in sustainability performance GAA members have developed a roadmap for continuous improvement in sustainability performance. An accompanying User-Guide sign-posts existing tools, guidance, case studies and partners. GAA supports individual members to implement the roadmap. Share and scale our contribution to the SDGs The United Nations (UN) SDGs are a common framework and universal plan of action for equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic development. 193 UN member states adopted the 17 goals adopted in 2015 that aim to end poverty, protect the environment and promote prosperity by 2030. We share case studies that: 1) showcase how GAA members are contributing to the SDGs and in doing so, identify where agribusiness can make the biggest contribution and 2) explore how the GAA’s workplan is making an additional contribution to the SDGs.
