--- Page 1 ---
Agri-business partnerships for sustainable landscapes Agricultural lands occupy almost half of the world’s land surface and a further expansion is projected to feed a global population expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. The social and economic contribution that agriculture makes at both the macro and micro levels is also well documented: agriculture contributes 30% of the GDP in many low-income countries and employs more than 2 billion people globally. Over 75% of people living in poverty depend on agriculture for their livelihoods. Agri-business firms—local, national and international—play major roles in agricultural production and services. As a significant land user, agri-business also has a critical role to play in holistic sustainable land management that protects and maintains essential ecosystem services and builds rural community resilience. To mitigate negative impacts of agriculture, as well as scale its positive contribution, the urgent uptake of sustainable land stewardship practices by the agri-business community, together with other key actors across the landscape is a priority. One important emerging lesson from the last decade, driving the growing traction around landscape approaches, are the limits to relying on certification or corporate level commitments and policies as measures of success and proxies for measurable outcomes on the ground. We need to find additional ways of working with new partners. Looking beyond the farmgate and aligning resources and priorities at the landscape level is one way forward. GAA and EcoAgriculture Partners are working together to identify and learn from a selection of innovative regenerative and restorative landscape partnerships in which agri-business companies are actively involved. These case studies will support us in our shared ambition to better understand the agri-business perspective—their business rationale for landscape partnerships, institutional models, business and landscape benefits, and how to bring success to scale. We welcome your input and feedback. Case study 07 New Forests USA Carbon forestry partnerships in northern California Case study 04 Bayer USA Cross-sector action to protect the Upper Mississippi River Basin Case study 01 Olam Tanzania Responsible water stewardship in the Upper Ruvuma River Basin Case study 03 Philip Morris International Malawi Toward sustainable tobacco sourcing: PMI partnerships in Malawi Case study 02 Golden Agri-Resources Indonesia Pursuing deforestation- free palm oil through landscape partnerships Case study 06 APRIL Indonesia Advancing forest ecosystem restoration in Sumatra Please download the cases here: globalagribusinessalliance.com Case study 05 Touton Ghana Partnerships for productivity protection and resilience in cocoa landscapes

--- Page 2 ---
Case studies Agri-business partnerships for sustainable landscapes “ We are working together to identify and learn from a selection of innovative regenerative and restorative landscape partnerships in which agri-business companies are actively involved. These case studies will support us in our shared ambition to better understand the agribusiness perspective—their business rationale for landscape partnerships, institutional models, business and landscape benefits, and how to bring success to scale . ” Insights Our shared intention is to build on this initial set of case studies over time and strengthen our collective understanding of how to build successful agri-business landscape partnerships. This first tranche already provides some valuable insights. For companies, issues such as water supply, human rights or deforestation —which they cannot fully control within their own operations—are strategic entry-points into landscape- level dialogue and action plan. The ‘landscape approach’ can help companies align and link historically disparate strategies, for example for water and sustainable sourcing. The role of multi-stakeholder platforms in helping to navigate multiple and diverse interests/priorities, including across different industries (e.g., mining and agriculture) and different government ministries is key. They also provide value in supporting stakeholders to identify and navigate trade-offs and synergies. The agri-businesses all reported concrete business benefits generated from healthier ecosystems and improved ecosystem management promoted by their partnerships. The cases demonstrate the diverse roles that agri-businesses can play in landscape partnerships—as convener, co-organizer, member, technical innovator and more—depending on business interests and institutional context. The rich variety of partnership models reflects the importance of designing and adapting them to meet local landscape needs. While several of the agri-businesses valued company-led models, others noted the importance of the business partner stepping-back and not ‘owning’ the process/governance, and noted the need for a ‘neutral and credible convenor and leader. All of the companies emphasized the importance of farmer/landowner engagement and highlighted the urgency in delivering benefits for them. Several noted the value of governments endorsing company-led partnerships, or effectively coordinating or collaborating in multi-stakeholder platforms. The Global Agri-business Alliance The Global Agri-business Alliance is the only multi-commodity, multi-geography, CEO-led platform for supply-side sector engagement and collective action: growers, processor, traders, providers of finance and inputs. Member companies have come together to strengthen their contribution to building sustainable landscapes and livelihoods. A time-bound initiative, GAA has its sights set firmly on 2030 and on making an additional contribution to the SDGs. The GAA does this by providing a platform for engagement and collaborative action that 1) scales best practice through peer learning 2) contributes to thought-leadership and 3) informs and influences emerging policies. globalagribusinessalliance.com EcoAgriculture Partners EcoAgriculture Partners is a mission- driven non-profit organization that advances the practice of integrated landscape management and the policies to support it, inspired by a vision of a world where agricultural communities manage their landscapes through democratic and inclusive processes of decision-making to simultaneously enhance rural livelihoods, conserve biodiversity and ecosystem services, and sustainably produce crops, livestock, fish, and fiber. From critical analysis of policies, markets, governance and land-use practices, EcoAgriculture generates innovative research, tools and methodologies that help landscape managers and policymakers create and sustain integrated agricultural landscapes worldwide. EcoAgriculture Partners serves as the global secretariat for the Landscapes for People, Food and Nature Initiative. ecoagriculture.org
