--- Page 1 ---
GAMIFICATION SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Gamification means enhancing the systems or services of an organization using game-design elements and principles, and companies can apply it in contexts such as health and well-being, transportation and sustainability. It reinforces positive emotions and can greatly affect employee behavior. Some gamification elements used in engaging, educating or even entertaining a targeted group include points, badges, leader boards, performance graphs, meaningful stories, teammates and avatars. Popular tools that can be adopted are virtual communities and mobile applications to track progress. Many personal mobility assistants include gamification as one of their features. Partakers are rewarded based on their accomplishments in competitive activities or tasks. Rewards can be both virtual and real. They are often associated with the behavior that is being encouraged, for example, awarding bike maintenance vouchers for employees cycling a lot, or a hiking holiday for the team achieving the most steps during a competition. Gamification is most effective when combined with other sustainable mobility measures since it helps to shift behaviors, and to do so, users need to have options available. Objectives pursued: Improve awareness of sustainable modes, improve health by fostering active modes, reduce carbon footprint, pollution and congestion, increase talent attraction and employee retention. Context: This practice can be adopted in any context and is an enforcement strategy to other implemented sustainable mobility strategies to increase their impact. Main benefits Gamification is a tool that fosters behavior change. When applied to sustainable mobility, its benefits are improving a business’ attractiveness, employee retention, employee awareness of sustainable mobility and talent attraction. Also, progress made with modal shifts will translate into reduced congestion and vehicular emissions and improved health and well-being through active modes. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Employee involvement in gamification can be low as it usually is non-mandatory. To overcome such a challenge, communication campaigns are usually effective, as is integrating some of the challenges into the company’s culture by presenting them at corporate events and encouraging senior management to participate and diffuse them. Rewards given to winners should incite their participation in sustainable mobility practices and willingness to excel. Companies can integrate gamification with personal mobility apps and expense reimbursement functionalities. Cost elements: Dependent on the gamification tools adopted and reward systems incorporated in the use approach. A WBCSD member company in the US has several examples of using gamification where the cost was low. Metrics for impact evaluation Employers can assess the success of this measure through employee participation and the shifts in employee mobility behaviors. Also, tools adopted for gamification can be helpful in providing the necessary information needed to track metrics such as reduction in cost and environmental impact. Our members who have adopted gamification
