--- Page 1 ---
GOWITHFLOW’S MICROMOBILITY SERVICES IN URBAN COMMUTING Summary Galp, the group to which GoWithFlow belongs, has been seeking to increase employee satisfaction and promote mobility decarbonization throughout the company. To that end, the company decided to provide employees at its Lisbon headquarters (HQ) with access to several micromobility offers. The new proposal was also aimed to reduce parking pressure. Thanks to the mobility solutions provided by GoWithFlow, Galp learned more about its current mobility situation and how its employees react to different types of incentives. The company uses this knowledge to advance its sustainable corporate mobility policy. Company background GoWithFlow is part of the Galp group and defines itself as a sustainable mobility resource management solution provider. They help businesses to transition towards low-emission fleets and provide tools to manage employees’ mobility efficiently. The company manages thousands of vehicles, EV charging stations and consumers across multiple software and services implementations in corporations and communities around the world. The mobility context This program has been put in place at Galp’s Lisbon HQ, located in the city of Lisbon but outside downtown, about 1km away from the nearest metro station. There are several bus stops close to the HQ, and it is near the most important high-way intersection around Lisbon. Several micromobility providers propose services locally, using different systems. The use of company- provided vehicles is limited. Best practice Galp wanted to incentivize the use of greener mobility options and reduce parking pressure around its HQ. To this end, the company decided to make micromobility options available to its employees near the corporate HQ in Lisbon. Several offers are available in the region, provided either by the municipal operator or by other third parties. Galp negotiated both mobility credits (buying minutes that were made available to employees) and discounts for selected employees. These were made available to employees as an additional benefit without impacting their salaries. Results This best practice allowed the collecting and analyzing of mobility data for Galp’s employees. Thanks to the partnerships Galp put in place, the service providers for the micromobility options, agreed to share the relevant data with Galp. And through GoWithFlow’s experience and software, the company got a better understanding of mobility patterns. This provided insight into which benefits employees’ value most. Providing discounts achieved less traction than expected, and mobility services were less adopted by employees with flexible benefit programs, many employees did not opt in for this benefit. This allowed Galp to better understand how these benefits affected employee satisfaction. It allowed the company to conclude that if they wanted the greatest impact, this measure had to be combined with others, in an integrated sustainable mobility policy. Overcoming challenges The main challenge faced was the low adoption rates of the proposed options. This highlighted the need for further measures to encourage sustainable mobility. Galp is still working on overcoming this challenge. The company has gathered the necessary data and is conducting analysis and further tests. Contact GoWithFlow
