--- Page 1 ---
“GUARANTEED RIDE HOME” PROGRAM SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Through a “Guaranteed Ride Home” program, employers can improve flexibility in their employees’ mobility decisions. In these programs, the employer defines the conditions under which the employee will get an alternative means of transport paid or subsidized by the employer. For example, the employee might get a taxi paid if he or she works beyond a certain hour. Other examples include getting a lift in a company car a specific number of times a month if the employee commutes using ridesharing, or getting a public transport pass if there are no shared bikes left. These programs are mostly put in place as additional incentives for using shared modes, like car sharing, bike sharing or public transport. Objectives pursued: Increase flexibility, increase adoption of shared modes. Context: This measure is mostly adopted in single-driver car-dominant areas, where incentives are needed to encourage mode shift. It is often combined with the promotion of shared modes and communication campaigns to ensure its principle is well understood. Main benefits By increasing confidence in shared modes, the “Guaranteed Ride Home” program helps to increase their adoption. It also improves employee flexibility and satisfaction, avoiding the anxiety of having few commuting options. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed As with other mobility measures, there is a risk these programs might be considered as employee benefits and taxes can be associated to them depending on the country and the value of the benefit each employee receives. To avoid this risk, local legislation must be taken into account, and conditions for the program should be drafted accordingly. Costs of these programs can be high, depending on how often employees need to action it. A continuous study of why the program has been used and improvement actions on the other modes is one way to address this challenge. Finally, some employees might have the impression of “leaving money on the table” when not using the program. One way to avoid this is to associate workplace or mobility improvements to the program’s remaining budget. For example, if less than 50% of the guaranteed ride home program budget is spent in one year, the remaining will be spent on financing more lockers and improving the existing showers. Cost elements: Costs depend on the conditions and the extent of the program. Metrics for impact evaluation Tracking the number of times the program is used and the reasons it is activated is relevant for cost control and better understanding employees mobility patterns. But the impact of this policy should be evaluated as part of assessing the changes in emissions, costs, congestion and attractivity of the overall corporate mobility. Our members offering guaranteed rides home
