--- Page 1 ---
Energy for All Partnership Photo: Ian Gill Photo: TERI Photo: SNV Energy for All Partnership For more information or to become a partner, contact the secretariat: secretariat@energyforall.info Tel: (65) 6438 4112 or visit the Partnership’s website: www.energyforall.info Become a partner The Energy for All Partnership is open to all individuals and organisations active in supporting access to energy in Asia and the Pacific. Participation from financial institutions and the private sector is strongly encouraged. Benefits from the Partnership vary according to the partners’ orientation and interests. For example, project developers can benefit from access to business development services, advice on project structuring, access to financing, and networking. Investors and financial institutions can benefit from project pipeline development, as well as knowledge sharing on technologies and financing mechanisms. Donors and development agencies can expect improved coordination, exchange of best practice approaches and strategies for scaling up access to energy. Technology suppliers and entrepreneurs can gain access to customers, investors, and financial institutions. All partners benefit from networking opportunities and receive newsletters, publications, and invitations to participate in Partnership events. The Secretariat The Energy for All Partnership is supported by a secretariat, which is hosted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and facilitated by The Foundation for Development Cooperation (FDC). Based at ADB headquarters in Manila and bolstered by experts based regionally, the secretariat provides assistance to the steering committee and working groups to ensure the goals of the Partnership are achieved. The secretariat is also actively engaged in knowledge management, monitoring and evaluation of the Partnership, and managing the Partnership’s communications and outreach.

--- Page 2 ---
Photo: Jack Whelan Photo: SNV Meeting the challenge of Energy for All Efforts to expand access to clean and modern energy for all must continue. Nearly 1 billion people in Asia and the Pacific still do not have access to electricity, and 1.8 billion people still rely on burning wood, dung, and crop waste to meet their cooking and heating needs. This persistent energy poverty hinders progress toward more sustainable and inclusive growth. There are many good models in place across the region for extending access to reliable and affordable modern energy to poor and rural communities. These include off-grid renewable energy sources, such as solar photovoltaic and micro-hydro; improved cooking technologies, such as efficient stoves and biogas; and innovative approaches in implementing and financing projects. The challenge now is to bring these successful approaches to scale to benefit millions more households. A partnership to scale up access to clean, modern energy Launched in June 2009 at the Asia Clean Energy Forum, the Energy for All Partnership is a regional response to a regional challenge. The Partnership provides a platform for cooperation, knowledge and technical exchange, innovation, and project development, bringing together key stakeholders from business, financial institutions, governments, and non-government organisations. The Partnership is focused on action, with a goal to provide access to clean and modern energy to 100 million people in the Asia- Pacific region by 2015 through: • promoting exchange of knowledge, ideas, and information; • demonstrating and mainstreaming appropriate financing mechanisms; • replicating and scaling up proven approaches; and • building partnerships to develop, finance and implement access to energy projects. ADB, through its Energy for All Initiative, is supporting the Partnership during its establishment phase. A partnership to provide access to energy to 100 million people in Asia and the Pacific by 2015 The Partnership is the outcome of extensive consultation with stakeholders, including two workshops convened in Manila in 2008, and responds to the need for a regional initiative dedicated to scaling up access to energy. The Partnership is guided by a steering committee composed of organisations at the forefront of the drive to achieve energy for all in the region. Current members of the steering committee are: • The Asian Development Bank (ADB) www.adb.org • e8 www.e8.org • E+Co www.eandco.net • ReEx Capital Asia www.reexasia.com • The National Electrification Administration of the Philippines www.nea.gov.ph • The Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP) www.reeep.org • SNV Netherlands Development Organisation www.snvworld.org • The Sustainable Energy Association of Singapore (SEAS) www.seas.org.sg • The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) www.teriin.org • The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) www.wbcsd.org Working Groups Working groups are the core of the Partnership and will be created to address specific geographic, technological, or thematic challenges to extending access to energy. Activities of the working groups include: • project identification, design and development; • financial structuring; • workshops and technical exchanges; • knowledge dissemination; and • monitoring and evaluation. Working groups will be established in response to demand from partners. The Partnership’s steering committee and secretariat will consider expressions of interest received from organisations proposing to lead working groups on an ongoing basis. Partners will receive information on working groups as they are established. Organisations interested in joining a working group should contact the working group chair or the Partnership secretariat at secretariat@energyforall.info
