--- Page 1 ---
INTEGRATED SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY POLICY SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Adopting a robust, well-integrated mobility policy is a best practice for making corporate mobility sustainable. An integrated sustainable mobility policy contains a series of measures tailor-made for the company within the context of its location(s), employee mobility needs and IT systems, and is developed based on mobility surveys and expert knowledge. Integrated mobility policies are multimodal and can include measures such as use of employee mobility cards, rewarding sustainable travel behavior, re-allocating car parking lot use, carpooling for providing public transport allowances and relocating offices near to public transport. Shifts towards sustainable mobility require providing employees with interesting options, and the business might not be able to do so on its own, especially when increases in the capacity of transport networks are needed. Collaboration with other local stakeholders – cities, transport operators and other businesses – is therefore also key to building a sustainable mobility policy. Objectives pursued: Reduce environmental impact, reduce congestion, improve business attractiveness, lead by example, ensure regulatory compliance, stimulate sustainable mobility behavior. Context: This measure can be adopted in any context and is often composed by global and local mobility strategies and policies. Analyzing the local context is critical to propose measures that increase accessibility and sustainability. Main benefits Several options are made available through an integrated mobility policy covering different transportation modes, office location decisions and flexible working to make corporate mobility more sustainable. Companies that have implemented such measures cite improvements in employee satisfaction and well-being as some of the main benefits, as well as improvements in employees' health when the use of active mobility is encouraged. They also observe decongestion of parking lots and operational cost savings - thanks to reduced parking and office space demand - or reduced investment costs - mainly through a declining need to build new parking spaces. Additional mobility cost savings come from shifting employees from drive-alone cars to other modes. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed Businesses that want to establish an integrated sustainable mobility plan can face major challenges such as employee buy-in. This can be addressed through reward and penalty systems, as well as through campaigns and transparency measures. Stakeholder alignment can also prove challenging but is improved by early stakeholder engagement in the decision-making processes. Adapting mobility policies to local business sites is also a barrier, best overcome by working with local actors. Finally, tracking the impact of an integrated mobility policy demands resources and putting in place appropriate metrics. The use of a third-party (app) in tracking achievements and progress can simplify this task. Cost elements: Dependent on the policy actions adopted and the challenges they seek to solve. Metrics for impact evaluation The impact made using the policy can be determined through a comparative analysis of CO 2 emissions, number of employees signed on to mobility initiatives, number of parking places used per day or week, employee satisfaction and retention surveys and number of employee travels and costs saved. Our members with an integrated sustainable mobility policy
