--- Page 1 ---
Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative Leadership Statement Buildings have a major role to play in addressing climate change. The building sector represents one third of final energy use worldwide and over 20% of global man-made Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Reducing energy consumption in buildings through increased energy efficiency will provide a significant contribution to ensuring the rise in global temperatures is limited to under 2°C. There are existing financially beneficial building practices and technology solutions for design, construction and operation that use less energy to heat, cool, ventilate, light and control buildings in conjunction with using better performing envelope designs and materials. Delivering energy-efficient buildings means adopting these practices and tools as well as changing user behavior. Increasing the energy efficiency of buildings also delivers additional economic and social benefits by creating jobs, improving health and productivity, improving utility capacity management, and reducing pressure on public budgets. However, there are non-technical barriers that hamper the uptake of energy-efficient solutions in both new and existing buildings. These barriers lie in the complex relationships and interactions between market participants. Solutions have to be found by engaging the full range of stakeholders across the building value chain, in local markets. Only increased coordination and collaboration in local building markets can lead to improved market acceptance of energy-efficient building practices. The WBCSD Energy Efficiency in Buildings (EEB 2.0) project was launched in 2013 to demonstrate that locally defined and led action can address these barriers and lead to increased investment and uptake of energy efficiency solutions. Following this demonstration in selected markets around the world, the EEB 2.0 member companies have launched the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative for Energy Efficiency in Buildings (LCTPi-EEB) to scale up local market engagements around the world, led by the private sector. This is our statement of ambition: Using today’s best practices and technologies projected energy use in buildings in 2030 can be reduced by 50% through actions on energy efficiency that offer favorable economic returns. Energy Efficiency in Buildings Led by

--- Page 2 ---
We believe that improving the energy efficiency of buildings should be a priority measure for reducing global carbon emissions, for these reasons 1) : • Buildings contribute over 20% of global GHG emissions and represent nearly 33% of global final energy use; • Efficiency investments can offer attractive returns to stakeholders through energy cost savings as well as enhanced building value; • Efficiency investments provide important societal benefits by creating jobs, reducing pressure on public budgets through decreased demand on utility investments and improving building occupant health and productivity; • Efficiency is the lowest cost option of all emission-reduction measures. In order to achieve our ambition a global effort is needed, with action on energy efficiency in buildings taking place around the world, at the local market level, in order to foster the necessary levels of collaboration and business model innovation in the building value chain. 1) References: IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, IEA, ACEEE To support this ambition we agree to the following actions: • To continue driving the demonstration projects led by the private sector, in order to continue showing that locally led efforts can catalyze market-wide energy efficiency investment in new build and in the renovation of existing building stocks. • To transfer EEB 2.0 project knowledge and best practices to regional and global LCTPi partners that share ambitions to take a local engagement approach forward at scale. • To position our companies for continued participation in market engagements to transform local building markets. • To continue to evaluate our own operations and invest to improve our energy efficiency performance, in alignment with our stated programs and emission reduction goals. • To support public policy in national and sub-national contexts that facilitates breaking down identified structural barriers. We call on partner organizations and businesses to join us in supporting local building market engagements and action plans. With our combined convening power and knowledge, we can create global momentum for the locally-led market transformation of energy-efficient buildings. Signed by the members of the LCTPi-EEB: Eric Olsen CEO, LafargeHolcim Neil McArthur CEO, Arcadis Peter Nieuwenhuizen Business Area RD&I Director Specialty Chemicals Supply Chain and Research, Development & Innovation, Akzo Nobel N.V. Vishal Sikka CEO & Managing Director, Infosys Jean-Pascal Tricoire Chairman and CEO, Schneider Electric Michael McQuade Senior Vice President, Science and Technology United Technologies Corporation Johan Karlström President and CEO, Skanska AB Matthias Rebellius CEO, Siemens BT Daniel Rüfenacht Vice President, Corporate Sustainability, SGS And supporting LCTPi-EEB: Rudy Provoost Chairman and CEO, Rexel
