--- Page 1 ---
On 1 April 2017, the Chinese government issued a plan for the construction of Xiong’an New Area to be the future subsidiary administrative center of China. Situated 100 km south of Beijing, Xiong’an New Area will become a testing ground for future institutional innovation. The goal is to build a national model that promotes high-quality development, high standards of living and solutions to existing ecological challenges. To support the development of the Xiong’an New Area into a sustainable, low-carbon city model, WBCSD and CBCSD have established LEEP Xiong’an as a joint project. Through a demonstration site, LEEP will pilot innovative business models and energy efficient solutions to decrease carbon emissions and water use and offer comfortable living with high- tech, quality services. LEEP Xiong’an is led by Sinopec and State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC). It currently involves the following companies: Arcadis, Baker McKenzie, P&G, and Suez. We call for more companies to join the project and take this unique opportunity for direct access to a city government that is actively implementing innovative solutions. Latest news Following a workshop with Xiong’an authorities and Xiong’an Group organized in November 2019, WBCSD has started to work with city experts on two projects covering energy and water: • A pilot project of a zero-carbon energy supply district through an integrated intelligent energy system. The city is in the process of analyzing the best opportunity and location to implement this project. • The “50L home” concept aiming to reduce water consumption for new builds and retrofits. It includes both household appliances and water supply and treatment. The team is working on an action plan considering affordability, lifestyle and health/ sanitation policy compliance. LEEP XIONG’AN CHINA A joint project of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the China Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) The LEEP Xiong’an project offers an opportunity for companies to help shape the vision of the Chinese government for a new urban development in Xiong’an New Area. Working through the joint WBCSD- CBCSD platform, led by SPIC and Sinopec, companies can provide their sustainability expertise and showcase best practice solutions leading to implementation projects in one of the most high-profile. urbanization initiatives in China. Contacts CBCSD, Chen Peiyun Chenpy@cbcsd.org.cn WBCSD, Claudia Schweizer schweizer@wbcsd.org WBCSD LEEP project is an innovative city partnership that offers businesses and cities to work in a cooperative way on low emissions projects. CBCSD Baoding Xiong'an New Area covers the counties of Rongcheng, Anxin and Xiongxian Beijing Tianjjn Rongcheng Anxin Xiongxian 120 km 110 km 121 km Shijiazhuang WBCSD members engaged in LEEP Xiong’an

--- Page 2 ---
2017年4月 ，中国政府宣布成立雄安 新区 ，打造北京非首都功能疏解集 中承载地。雄安新区位于北京以南 100公里处，是中国体制机制创新的 试验场，将成为新时代推动高质量 发展、高生活水平和应对生态环境 挑战的全国样板。 雄 安 L E E P 项 目 由 W B C S D 与 CBCSD共同发起， 旨在支持雄安新 区建设 ，助力雄安成为低碳城市、 可 持续发展典范。雄安LEEP项目将通 过试点示范，推行创新节能解决方 案，采用新的商业模式以减少碳排 放和用水量 ，提供高科技、高质量服 务创造更加美好的生活。 LEEP雄安项目由中国石化和国家电 投共同牵头 ，参与该项目的世界可持 续发展工商理事会 （WBCSD） 会员 企业还包括凯谛思 （Arcadis） 、 宝洁 （P&G） 、 苏伊士 （SUEZ） 和贝克麦 坚时 （Bakery Mckenzie） 。我们欢 迎更多企业踊跃加入 ，抓住这一千 载难逢的机会与政府合作，实施创 新解决方案 。 项目动态 2019年11月 ，WBCSD与雄安新区各 政府机构和雄安集团举行雄安可持 续发展项目 （LEEP） 国际研讨会。 之 后 ，WBCSD开始与专家就能源和水 两个板块开展合作项目 ， 助力雄安可 持续发展。 零碳供能项目： 通过综合智慧能源 系统，打造雄安新区零碳供能示范 区 。WBCSD正与雄安管委会协调分 析实施此项目的最佳时机和地点 。 50升水家庭节水项目： 该项目旨在 减少新建、改建项目/建筑用水量， 包括家庭内部用水与供水和水处理。 项目合作团队正在制定行动方案， 研究其可负担性、生活方式和卫生 政策合规性。 WBCSD LEEP项目是一个创新 性的城市合作倡议，旨在为企 业和城市搭建低碳方案的合作 平台。 中国-雄安低碳经济合作项目 世界可持续发展工商理事会 （WBCSD） 与中国可持续发展 工商理事会 （CBCSD） 合作项目 中国政府制定了建设雄安新区 的宏伟目标，WBCSD与CBCSD 合作开展LEEP雄安项目，由国 家电投和中国石化牵头，针对 中国这一最具前瞻性与代表性 的城市建设提出倡议，为企业 充分参与并发挥其可持续发展 智慧、展现最佳实践及务实解 决方案，提供良机。 联系人 CBCSD，陈佩云 Chenpy@cbcsd.org.cn WBCSD, Claudia Schweizer schweizer@wbcsd.org 参与LEEP雄安项目的世界可持续发展工商理事会会员企业 CBCSD （LEEP） 120 110 121
