--- Page 1 ---
MAAS PLATFORM BY ARVAL MOBILITY SOLUTIONS Summary Arval, a company part of the BNP Paribas Group, provides access to a mobility as a service (MaaS) platform to all its employees in the Parisian region. Through the platform, employees can book and pay for a range of mobility services provided by Arval or by third-party service providers: car sharing, car or bike lease, demand a ride on an automated shuttle, public transport, amongst others. The platform’s main aim is to increase users’ flexibility and encourage the use of decarbonized modes. By making the platform available to employees, Arval has been able to test this product and to receive feedback from employees. Company background Aval is a mobility solution provider part of the BNP Paribas Group. They support large companies and international corporations every day, with every element of fleet management. Arval proposes sustainable and innovative mobility solutions for its corporate customers and applies these internally for its own employees. The mobility context This solution is currently being tested by Arval at its headquarters (HQ) in the Parisian region. The region has a very developed public transport system managed by a regional mobility authority. There are numerous transport operators, with three big public transport providers using joint ticketing services and a series of smaller companies providing micromobility options with their own fare service. Arval’s HQ are a 10-minutes' walk away from a major train station, and the company is currently testing an on-demand autonomous shuttle to and from the station. Best practice In their proposed MaaS platform, Arval combines personal transport demand management with convenient payment, allowing users to plan for their trip, get information on several travel parameters (like time spent, price and CO 2 emission) and to pay for some of the transportation options. By providing an easy comparison of available options, the platform increases flexibility and removes one of the barriers to using alternative modes – lack of information. Results Providing employees with the most recent innovations in their mobility services presents several advantages. First, the service is valued by employees, and seen as an additional benefit. Secondly, the company can test new solutions and get feedback in close to real-life settings before taking the product to market. Finally, the MaaS platform encourages multimodal transport and combined with the autonomous shuttle, increases Arval’s HQ accessibility. Overcoming challenges The main challenges Arval faced were found in integrating the different transport solutions into their MaaS platform. To convince service providers to join a MaaS platform demands a solid business case and the ability to demonstrate the advantages this integration might bring to the service provider. Furthermore, each service provider has its own systems and data collection mechanisms, and integrating them in one single app can be technically challenging. The easiest way to overcome these challenges is to team up with or use existing MaaS platforms.
