--- Page 1 ---
MAAS TOOLS AND ENCOURAGING INTERMODALITY SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MOBILITY USE CASES DESCRIPTION Flexibility is one of the main reasons to provide alternative mobility modes. Mobility as a Service (MaaS) tools provide flexibility and simplicity in choosing mobility options, through a more user-centered approach. They allow easy access to or coordination of several transport solutions for employees offered by the company or by third parties. MaaS tools can also integrate personal mobility. As a personal mobility assistant, they provide customized advice on what mobility to use to fulfill a certain goal, like the lowest travel time or lowest cost. The International Transport Forum (ITF) estimates that with the right governance and regulatory framework, MaaS solutions can contribute to a reduction of between 5 and 20% of greenhouse gas emissions. Objectives pursued: Improve transport accessibility and flexibility, reduce environmental impact, improve attractiveness and retention of talent, reduce congestion, make sustainable alternatives available. Context: A MaaS tool has been adopted by one of our members in France. To work properly and efficiently, MaaS tools require reliable and shared transport data, and clear data governance. These conditions are currently being met in several European countries, in the US and in Japan. Main benefits Encouraging intermodality and using MaaS tools offers convenient and flexible transport by gathering information on several modes in one tool. Its adoption can also reduce congestion and environmental impact. MaaS tools can be a convenient way for businesses to subsidize certain transport modes. Cost elements: Dependent on the transport systems, mobility options, complementary systems, or third-party service providers deployed. Possible challenges and how they can be addressed To be interesting for the user, a MaaS tool needs to aggregate solutions from several providers and integrate personal mobility options. Employers should be mindful of the options that interest their employees when choosing MaaS tool providers or designing their own MaaS tools. Adoption can be encouraged by providing incentives for certain sustainable modes inside the MaaS tool, for example, by subsidizing bike-sharing schemes. Concerns about data usage should also be carefully evaluated before providing these solutions. Metrics for impact evaluation Like personal mobility assistants, MaaS tools can provide useful information on transport modes used, and often other metrics linked to cost and environmental impact for individuals. Employers can assess the success of this measure through the number of employees adopting the tool and the shifts in employee mobility thanks to it. Our members who propose a MaaS tool to encourage intermodality
