--- Page 1 ---
Meeting the goals and targets of the Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF) demands a transformative change of our economic models, policies, and decision-making processes. Key economic sectors like food and agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture, mining, energy, infrastructure, trade, and finance are currently driving biodiversity loss, leading to inequalities and social-ecological conflicts. Yet, they need to play a major role in achieving the GBF targets, along with other sectors, such as health and education. Only through the mobilization and transformation of key sectors can we halt the degradation of ecosystem integrity, stop deforestation and the conversion of natural ecosystems, eliminate overexploitation and overconsumption, address pollution and climate change, and safeguard human rights: all necessary to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030 and to make peace with nature. While parts of the private sector are starting to act, voluntary actions are not enough. Governments should ensure this transformation through strong policies, regulations, and incentives that address the drivers of biodiversity loss. We urge Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) to prioritize biodiversity mainstreaming and to integrate nature’s diverse values when implementing the GBF, both at the global and national level. COP16 presents a key opportunity to mobilize and enable key sectors to assume their share of responsibility and take bold, transformative action. We call on Parties to take the following immediate actions to accelerate the implementation of the GBF: At the global level: 1 At COP 16, adopt a new, ambitious CBD roadmap for biodiversity mainstreaming that prioritizes sectoral transformation to implement the GBF. 2 Strengthen accountability by ensuring progress on mainstreaming is measured through robust headline indicators . 3 Establish and join a Mainstreaming Champions Group of Parties committed to accelerating progress on integrating biodiversity within and across sectors to implement the GBF. 4 Ensure that multilateral institutions 1 develop and implement global sector-based just transitions for nature, climate, and people supported by sector- specific communities of practice. 5 Secure sufficient financial resources for sectoral transitions by working with financial institutions and aligning all financial flows with the GBF. At national level: 6 Reform and implement sectoral policies and plans to facilitate a just transition for nature, climate, and people. 7 Measure progress and report on sectoral commitments through participatory, evidence- based national monitoring frameworks . 8 Involve relevant ministers and sectors in the development and implementation of National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans and have these approved at the highest political level. 9 Urgently identify environmentally harmful subsidies by 2025, to eliminate, phase out or reform them, and to scale up positive incentives, as all Parties committed in GBF Target 18. __________________ 1 Institutions such as specialized agencies of the United Nations, International Financial Institutions, Multilateral Development Banks, and International Organizations that deal with global economic and sectoral policies Time to mobilize and transform key sectors for biodiversity A call to action

--- Page 2 ---
All these immediate actions should be implemented with a human rights-based approach and with the meaningful participation of rights-holders such as Indigenous Peoples, local communities, Afro-descendants, women and youth. These actions should build on existing guidance, tools, and frameworks, while addressing gaps that require further work. We have just 6 years left to implement the Global Biodiversity Framework. Without transformative sectoral action, we will not succeed in halting and reversing biodiversity loss by 2030. The time to take ambitious and urgent action is now.
