--- Page 1 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 1 K W p c o a d s F p i p i l COMPANY IN BRIEF Based in the United States, Manulife Investment Management is a timberland investment management organization (TIMO) managing over 2.3 million hectares of forest, employing 600 people and working with 4,500 contractors. CHALLENGE Oregon’s Minam River Valley is the gateway to the federally designated Wild and Scenic Minam River and is adjacent to the Eagle Cap Wilderness Area. Until late 2021, Manulife managed the area as a working forest for three separate clients. INITIATIVE Manulife is in the process of permanently conserving a 1,900-hectare area of significant conservation value within the Minam River Valley to ensure it is not lost to future private development. The ecosystems within the area offer exceptional value to various species, such as salmon and wild turkeys, and abundant hunting, fishing and recreational opportunities. This initiative is part of Manulife’s broader efforts to conserve land of significant biodiversity value through its Sensitive Lands Program, adding to the 193,000 hectares under conservation. PARTNERSHIPS This conservation initiative is a public-private collaboration between Manulife, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) and the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation (RMEF). IMPERATIVES The initiative ensures the maintenance of a wildlife habitat corridor between two forested federal land areas. It also retains and enhances access to outdoor recreational opportunities, maintaining the land’s conservation value and securing carbon stocks. Investment in forest conservation Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain

--- Page 2 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 2 MORE INFORMATION • Phase one of Minam River Wildlife Area project completed; Ensuring protections for wildlife habitat and recreation • Commission approves purchase of new property for Minam River Wildlife Area Contact: blewis@manulife.com WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group is the global platform where leading business in the forest products sector build and share solutions to sustainable development. BUSINESS CASE This initiative creates positive outcomes for nature, climate and people, strengthening Manulife’s social license to operate and increasing its attractiveness for investors. Additionally, by selling property into permanent conservation, Manulife can earn a financial return for its investors. ADVOCACY To raise awareness of sustainable forest management and forest conservation, Manulife supports organizations such as RMEF through corporate charitable contributions. NEXT STEPS Phase 2 of the project in 2022/2023 will triple its current size to 6,300 hectares and make it the largest conservation project in ODFW’s history.
