--- Page 1 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 1 K W p c o a d s F p i p i l COMPANY IN BRIEF Mondi is a global packaging and paper company with operations in 30 countries and employing 21,000 people. Mondi’s business is integrated across the value chain, from managing forests and producing pulp, paper and films, to developing and manufacturing sustainable consumer and industrial packaging solutions. Mondi owns or manages around 250,000 hectares of land in South Africa. CHALLENGE Across South Africa, water scarcity is a key issue that climate change is further aggravating. It has significant impacts on land users such as forestry and agricultural producers that face a risk of water shortages. Also, when not well-managed, they themselves can considerably impact water resources. INITIATIVE Mondi’s water stewardship initiative is built on three pillars: 1) reduce the quantity of water used in operations through interventions in mills and nurseries, implementing ‘best available techniques’ and targeted capital expenditure; 2) improve freshwater ecosystems (wetlands and streams) on own landholdings in water source areas through effective management and regular monitoring programs (including certification); 3) promote best practices in water stewardship and strengthen water governance together with other land and water users in the river catchments Mondi is located in. PARTNERSHIPS This initiative is based on long-standing partnerships with WWF South Africa and the public- private Umhlathuze Water Stewardship Partnership. These collaborations have tested and used valuable water stewardship tools developed and/or supported by WWF, such as the Water Risk Filter tool and the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) standard. IMPERATIVES Through this initiative, Mondi has reduced the water footprint of its operations, improved the ecological integrity and associated water quality of streams and wetlands on its landholdings and engaged other land users in water stewardship efforts. Water stewardship from the source to the mill Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain

--- Page 2 ---
Toward a Nature-Positive forest sector: Examples along the value chain 2 MORE INFORMATION • Mondi Group Sustainable Development report 2021 Contact: denis.popov@mondigroup.com WBCSD’s Forest Solutions Group is the global platform where leading business in the forest products sector build and share solutions to sustainable development. BUSINESS CASE The initiative aims to improve the resilience of Mondi’s operations in the face of climate change- induced pressures on water resources, such as droughts or floods. It also strengthens Mondi’s social license to operate in the area by contributing to the well-being of other stakeholders dependent on water. ADVOCACY Mondi participates in the development of water stewardship requirements with global forest certification systems. The company shares best practices and lessons learned at regional, national and international levels to raise awareness of the issue and engages with local water users to adopt water stewardship approaches. NEXT STEPS Mondi aims to conduct water stewardship assessments at all pulp and paper mills by 2025 and define actions to address material impacts and dependencies in mills, forestry landholdings and the broader landscapes.
